ZMPSTE24: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Acts upstream of or within regulation of defense response to virus. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in mandibuloacral dysplasia type B lipodystrophy and restrictive dermopathy.
BANF1: Enables several functions, including LEM domain binding activity; double-stranded DNA binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including mitotic nuclear membrane reassembly; negative regulation of protein ADP-ribosylation; and negative regulation of viral genome replication. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Is active in chromatin and condensed chromosome. Implicated in progeria.
WRN: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA helicase activity; and metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA geometric change; DNA metabolic process; and cellular response to gamma radiation. Acts upstream of or within cellular response to starvation; protein localization to nucleolus; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in centrosome; chromosome, telomeric region; and nuclear lumen. Implicated in Werner syndrome; breast cancer; coronary artery disease (multiple); diffuse scleroderma; and senile cataract. Biomarker of restrictive cardiomyopathy.
LMNA: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA double-strand break attachment to nuclear envelope; cellular response to hypoxia; and regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream of or within with a positive effect on cellular senescence. Located in several cellular components, including nucleus; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and site of double-strand break. Implicated in several diseases, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B1; intrinsic cardiomyopathy (multiple); lipodystrophy (multiple); muscular dystrophy (multiple); and type 2 diabetes mellitus (multiple). Biomarker of aortic valve disease 2.
////
PEX1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix, receptor recycling and protein unfolding. Acts upstream of or within microtubule-based peroxisome localization. Located in cytosol and peroxisome. Is active in peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in Heimler syndrome 1; peroxisome biogenesis disorder 1A; and peroxisome biogenesis disorder 1B.
PEX2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including fatty acid metabolic process; negative regulation of cell population proliferation; and pexophagy. Located in peroxisomal membrane. Part of Cdc73/Paf1 complex. Implicated in peroxisomal biogenesis disorder and peroxisome biogenesis disorder 5A.
PEX3: Enables lipid binding activity. Involved in protein import into peroxisome membrane. Located in endoplasmic reticulum; nucleoplasm; and peroxisomal membrane. Part of protein-lipid complex. Implicated in peroxisomal biogenesis disorder and peroxisome biogenesis disorder 10A.
PEX5: Enables several functions, including peroxisome targeting sequence binding activity; protein sequestering activity; and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including pexophagy; protein targeting to peroxisome; and protein tetramerization. Located in Golgi apparatus; membrane; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Is active in cytosol and peroxisomal matrix. Implicated in peroxisome biogenesis disorder 2A; peroxisome biogenesis disorder 2B; and rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 5.
PEX6: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix; protein stabilization; and protein unfolding. Located in cytosol; peroxisome; and photoreceptor cell cilium. Is active in peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in Heimler syndrome 2; peroxisomal biogenesis disorder; and peroxisome biogenesis disorder 4A.
PEX7: Enables enzyme binding activity; peroxisome matrix targeting signal-2 binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in ether lipid biosynthetic process and peroxisome organization. Acts upstream of or within protein import into peroxisome matrix. Located in peroxisome. Is active in cytosol and peroxisomal matrix. Implicated in peroxisomal biogenesis disorder and rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1.
////
HK1: Enables hexokinase activity and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involved in carbohydrate phosphorylation; establishment of protein localization to mitochondrion; and maintenance of protein location in mitochondrion. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4G; anemia (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); obesity; and retinitis pigmentosa. Biomarker of sickle cell anemia.
GPI: Enables glucose-6-phosphate isomerase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in glucose 6-phosphate metabolic process; positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and positive regulation of immunoglobulin production. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Implicated in congenital hemolytic anemia; congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia; intellectual disability; and neuromuscular disease. Biomarker of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia.
PFKM: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity; ATP binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes, including fructose 6-phosphate metabolic process; glycolytic process through fructose-6-phosphate; and muscle cell cellular homeostasis. Located in apical plasma membrane and nucleus. Part of 6-phosphofructokinase complex. Implicated in glycogen storage disease VII.
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphate aldolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida; fructose 1,6-bisphosphate metabolic process; and muscle cell cellular homeostasis. Located in several cellular components, including actin cytoskeleton; extracellular exosome; and sperm head.
TPI1: Enables protein homodimerization activity; triose-phosphate isomerase activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate biosynthetic process. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus. Implicated in carbohydrate metabolic disorder and triosephosphate isomerase deficiency.
GAPDH: Enables aspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity; disordered domain specific binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of protein metabolic process; and positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; lipid droplet; and nuclear membrane. Part of GAIT complex; nucleus; and ribonucleoprotein complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and lymphangioleiomyomatosis.
PGK1: Enables phosphoglycerate kinase activity and protein-disulfide reductase (NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to hypoxia; negative regulation of angiogenesis; and plasminogen activation. Located in extracellular space and membrane raft. Implicated in hemolytic anemia and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 deficiency.
PGAM2: Enables identical protein binding activity and phosphoglycerate mutase activity. Involved in glycolytic process and striated muscle contraction. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus. Implicated in myoglobinuria.
ENO3: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Involved in substantia nigra development. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane.
PKM: Enables phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor; protein homodimerization activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in positive regulation of sprouting angiogenesis; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and programmed cell death. Located in cytosol. Is active in nucleus.
////
EGR2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1D; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4E; and motor peripheral neuropathy.
NAGLU: Predicted to enable alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in glycosaminoglycan catabolic process and nervous system development. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including ear development; locomotor rhythm; and nervous system development. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease axonal type 2V; mucopolysaccharidosis III; and mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB. Biomarker of mucopolysaccharidosis III.
GPI: Enables glucose-6-phosphate isomerase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in glucose 6-phosphate metabolic process; positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and positive regulation of immunoglobulin production. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Implicated in congenital hemolytic anemia; congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia; intellectual disability; and neuromuscular disease. Biomarker of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia.
DNAJC3: Predicted to enable several functions, including misfolded protein binding activity; protein kinase inhibitor activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process and negative regulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced eIF2 alpha phosphorylation. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane.
SH3TC2: Predicted to be involved in regulation of ERBB signaling pathway and regulation of intracellular protein transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within peripheral nervous system myelin maintenance. Predicted to be located in cytoplasmic vesicle and plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in recycling endosome. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4C.
TWNK: Enables several functions, including 5'-3' DNA helicase activity; identical protein binding activity; and protease binding activity. Involved in nucleic acid metabolic process and protein hexamerization. Located in mitochondrial nucleoid. Implicated in Perrault syndrome; autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 3; chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia; and mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 7.
PIEZO2: Predicted to enable mechanosensitive monoatomic cation channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cellular response to mechanical stimulus; detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception; and monoatomic cation transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within monoatomic ion transmembrane transport. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane. Implicated in distal arthrogryposis type 3 and distal arthrogryposis type 5.
FLVCR1: Enables heme transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in heme export. Acts upstream of or within erythrocyte differentiation; heme transport; and mitochondrial transport. Located in mitochondrion.
MPZ: Involved in cell aggregation; cell-cell adhesion via plasma-membrane adhesion molecules; and myelination. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (multiple).
PRX: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including myelination in peripheral nervous system; regulation of RNA splicing; and transmission of nerve impulse. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3 and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4F.
PMP22: Predicted to enable cytoskeletal motor activity. Involved in bleb assembly and cell death. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (multiple); Guillain-Barre syndrome; and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies.
KPNA3: Predicted to enable nuclear import signal receptor activity and nuclear localization sequence binding activity. Predicted to be involved in NLS-bearing protein import into nucleus. Located in NLS-dependent protein nuclear import complex.
POLG: Enables several functions, including 3'-5' exonuclease activity; DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity; and protease binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial DNA replication. Acts upstream of or within base-excision repair, gap-filling. Located in extracellular space; mitochondrial nucleoid; and nucleolus. Part of gamma DNA polymerase complex. Implicated in several diseases, including mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (multiple); mitochondrial myopathy (multiple); neurodegenerative disease (multiple); ovarian disease (multiple); and sensory ataxic neuropathy, dysarthria, and ophthalmoparesis.
RNF170: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in protein ubiquitination. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Implicated in autosomal dominant sensory ataxia 1 and hereditary spastic paraplegia 85.
AARS1: Enables alanine-tRNA ligase activity and aminoacyl-tRNA editing activity. Involved in alanyl-tRNA aminoacylation. Located in cytosol. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease axonal type 2N; developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 29; leukodystrophy; and trichothiodystrophy.
////
AHSG: Predicted to enable endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in acute-phase response; positive regulation of phagocytosis; and regulation of inflammatory response. Located in Golgi apparatus. Implicated in alopecia-mental retardation syndrome 1; coronary artery disease; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of gestational diabetes; myocardial infarction; obesity; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
CARMIL1: Involved in several processes, including actin filament network formation; plasma membrane bounded cell projection organization; and positive regulation of cellular component organization. Located in several cellular components, including lamellipodium; macropinosome; and nuclear speck.
DNM2: Enables SH3 domain binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of membrane tubulation; receptor internalization; and transferrin transport. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; microtubule; and postsynaptic membrane. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease dominant intermediate B; centronuclear myopathy 1; and lethal congenital contracture syndrome.
DOCK2: Enables T cell receptor binding activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including macropinocytosis; myeloid dendritic cell activation involved in immune response; and myoblast fusion. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including T cell activation; immunological synapse formation; and membrane raft polarization. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane. Implicated in immunodeficiency 40.
EHD4: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in endocytic recycling and protein homooligomerization. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and recycling endosome membrane.
MAPKAPK2: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; regulation of gene expression; and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Located in centrosome; cytoplasm; and nucleoplasm.
MAPKAPK3: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in peptidyl-serine phosphorylation and response to cytokine. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in patterned macular dystrophy 3.
PPT1: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity; sulfatide binding activity; and thiolester hydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, including lysosomal lumen acidification; positive regulation of endocytosis; and protein depalmitoylation. Acts upstream of or within pinocytosis and receptor-mediated endocytosis. Located in several cellular components, including lysosome; membrane raft; and synaptic vesicle. Implicated in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1.
PYCARD: Enables several functions, including Pyrin domain binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity; regulation of cytokine production; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi membrane; canonical inflammasome complex; and nuclear lumen. Part of canonical inflammasome complex. Colocalizes with IkappaB kinase complex.
RAB34: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport; lysosome localization; and phagosome-lysosome fusion. Located in Golgi cisterna; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and phagocytic vesicle.
SNX33: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton-dependent cytokinesis; plasma membrane tubulation; and regulation of protein localization to cell surface. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle; cytosol; and membrane. Is extrinsic component of membrane.
SNX5: Enables dynactin binding activity and phosphatidylinositol binding activity. Involved in several processes, including pinocytosis; positive regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway; and retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane; endosome; and macropinocytic cup. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane and extrinsic component of endosome membrane. Part of perinuclear region of cytoplasm and retromer complex. Colocalizes with early endosome membrane.
UBE3A: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including protein ubiquitination; regulation of protein metabolic process; and response to steroid hormone. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Predicted to be part of proteasome complex. Predicted to be active in cytosol and glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in Angelman syndrome.
LRP1: Enables alpha-2 macroglobulin receptor activity; apolipoprotein binding activity; and clathrin heavy chain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; and endocytosis. Located in basolateral plasma membrane and early endosome. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; keratosis pilaris atrophicans; myocardial infarction; and sciatic neuropathy.
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; lipid transport; and second-messenger-mediated signaling. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; cell surface; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including blood platelet disease (multiple); hemolytic-uremic syndrome; osteoarthritis; pulmonary tuberculosis; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); myeloid neoplasm (multiple); myositis (multiple); rheumatic heart disease; and sickle cell anemia.
LDLR: Enables several functions, including low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; and very-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; cholesterol transport; and long-term memory. Located in several cellular components, including clathrin-coated pit; endosome; and external side of plasma membrane. Part of PCSK9-LDLR complex and receptor complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; arteriosclerosis; familial hypercholesterolemia; hepatitis C; and migraine without aura. Biomarker of systemic lupus erythematosus.
////
AKT1: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; anion binding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within activation-induced cell death of T cells; intracellular signal transduction; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; microtubule cytoskeleton; and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including Cowden syndrome 6; breast cancer (multiple); colorectal cancer (multiple); pancreatic cancer (multiple); and reproductive organ cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including coronary artery disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); malignant astrocytoma; and urinary system cancer (multiple).
CASP3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to staurosporine; erythrocyte differentiation; and positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of apoptotic process and neurotrophin TRK receptor signaling pathway. Located in caspase complex; cytosol; and nucleus. Implicated in Parkinson's disease; colon cancer; lung non-small cell carcinoma; and stomach cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including breast cancer (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); neurodegenerative disease (multiple); and reproductive organ cancer (multiple).
CCNY: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of autophagy; and positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of cytoplasmic cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex.
CDK5R1: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in positive regulation of signaling receptor activity; protein phosphorylation; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Located in nucleoplasm; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and serine/threonine protein kinase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
HSPB1: Enables several functions, including protein folding chaperone; protein homodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including anterograde axonal protein transport; positive regulation of angiogenesis; and positive regulation of endothelial cell migration. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease axonal type 2F; distal hereditary motor neuropathy type 2B; pancreatic cancer; and sarcoma. Biomarker of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis.
IRGM: Enables protein domain specific binding activity; protein kinase binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of innate immune response; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and response to bacterium. Located in Golgi membrane; cytosol; and mitochondrion. Implicated in inflammatory bowel disease 19 and tuberculosis.
KAT5: Enables several functions, including N-acyltransferase activity; chromatin binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including histone acetylation; positive regulation of chromosome segregation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on lipid droplet disassembly. Located in several cellular components, including chromosome; mitotic spindle pole; and nuclear lumen. Part of Swr1 complex. Biomarker of breast cancer.
MLST8: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including TORC1 signaling; positive regulation of TOR signaling; and regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization. Part of TORC1 complex and TORC2 complex.
NOD2: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity; heat shock protein binding activity; and muramyl dipeptide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cytokine production; positive regulation of immune response; and response to bacterium. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including detection of muramyl dipeptide; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of gene expression. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; basolateral plasma membrane; and phagocytic vesicle. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including Blau syndrome; autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal carcinoma; intestinal disease (multiple); and lung disease (multiple). Biomarker of allergic rhinitis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
PIK3CA: Enables 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of anoikis; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling; and positive regulation of protein kinase B signaling. Acts upstream of or within phosphorylation. Part of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex, class IA. Implicated in several diseases, including CLOVES syndrome; Cowden syndrome 5; breast cancer (multiple); cutaneous Paget's disease; and gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple). Biomarker of esophageal cancer and stomach cancer.
RPTOR: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; RNA polymerase III cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein kinase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including TORC1 signaling; cellular response to leucine; and positive regulation of protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic stress granule; lysosome; and nucleoplasm. Part of TORC1 complex.
SMCR8: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein kinase inhibitor activity. Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of TOR signaling; and regulation of macroautophagy. Located in chromatin; cytoplasm; and nucleoplasm. Part of guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor complex. Colocalizes with Atg1/ULK1 kinase complex.
SNCA: Enables several functions, including Hsp70 protein binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of transport; positive regulation of transport; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including growth cone; inclusion body; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with platelet alpha granule membrane. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; Lewy body dementia; Parkinson's disease; Parkinson's disease 1; and Parkinson's disease 4. Biomarker of several diseases, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease; Lewy body dementia; depressive disorder; neurodegenerative disease (multiple); and vascular dementia.
STING1: Enables several functions, including guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of defense response. Located in several cellular components, including autophagosome; bounding membrane of organelle; and cytoplasmic vesicle. Implicated in STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy. Biomarker of human immunodeficiency virus infectious disease.
STK11: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including anoikis; protein phosphorylation; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on G1 to G0 transition. Acts upstream of or within activation of protein kinase activity. Located in several cellular components, including mitochondrion; nucleoplasm; and serine/threonine protein kinase complex. Part of intracellular protein-containing complex. Implicated in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome; cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma; familial melanoma; ovarian carcinoma; and pancreatic cancer. Biomarker of breast carcinoma and endometrial cancer.
TAB2: Enables K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling; positive regulation of protein kinase activity; and response to lipopolysaccharide. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including cytosol; endosome membrane; and nucleoplasm.
TRIB3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in nucleoplasm.
////
TNXB: Enables collagen fibril binding activity. Involved in collagen metabolic process; elastic fiber assembly; and positive regulation of collagen fibril organization. Located in extracellular exosome. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; Ehlers-Danlos syndrome classic-like 1; and vesicoureteral reflux.
C1R: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in zymogen activation. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome periodontal type 1.
C1S: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in complement activation, classical pathway; innate immune response; and proteolysis. Located in blood microparticle. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome periodontal type 2.
B3GALT6: Enables galactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-galactosyltransferase activity. Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process and proteoglycan biosynthetic process. Located in Golgi medial cisterna. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome spondylodysplastic type 2 and spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity type 1.
FKBP14: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Predicted to be involved in protein peptidyl-prolyl isomerization. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome kyphoscoliotic type 2.
SLC39A13: Enables protein homodimerization activity and zinc ion transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in connective tissue development; intracellular zinc ion homeostasis; and zinc ion transmembrane transport. Located in Golgi apparatus and membrane. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome spondylodysplastic type 3.
DSE: Enables chondroitin-glucuronate 5-epimerase activity. Involved in dermatansulfate biosynthetic process. Located in Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum.Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome musculocontractural type 2.
COL12A1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringtensile strength. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation. Located inextracellular exosome. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellularmatrix. Implicated in Bethlem myopathy and Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy.
ADAMTS2: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in extracellular matrix organization. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including collagen fibril organization; proteinprocessing; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in extracellularregion. Predicted to be active in extracellular matrix. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlossyndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome dermatosparaxis type.
COL1A2: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;platelet-derived growth factor binding activity; and protease binding activity.Involved in several processes, including Rho protein signal transduction;collagen fibril organization; and skin morphogenesis. Located in endoplasmicreticulum and extracellular space. Part of collagen type I trimer. Colocalizeswith collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlossyndrome (multiple); heart valve disease; intracranial aneurysm; osteogenesisimperfecta (multiple); and osteoporosis.
COL3A1: Enables integrin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; and protease binding activity. An extracellular matrix structuralconstituent. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptorsignaling pathway; cell-matrix adhesion; and collagen fibril organization.Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix and extracellular space.Part of collagen type III trimer. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; Ehlers-Danlossyndrome hypermobility type; end stage renal disease; and vascular type Ehlers-Danlossyndrome.
COL5A1: Enables heparin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factor bindingactivity; and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes,including collagen biosynthetic process; collagen fibril organization; andwound healing, spreading of epidermal cells. Located in collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Part of collagen type V trimer. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlossyndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome classic type 1.
COL5A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in several processes, including collagen fibril organization;negative regulation of endodermal cell differentiation; and skin development.Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Part of collagen typeV trimer. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndromeclassic type 2.
ZNF469: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and metal ion binding activity.Involved in regulation of extracellular matrix organization. Acts upstreamof or within negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predictedto be located in nucleus. Implicated in brittle cornea syndrome 1.
CHST14: Enables N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity. Involvedin dermatan sulfate proteoglycan metabolic process. Acts upstream of or withindermatan sulfate biosynthetic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicatedin Ehlers-Danlos syndrome musculocontractural type 1.
AEBP1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity; and collagen binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II and regulation of collagenfibril organization. Located in extracellular exosome. Colocalizes with collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome classic-like 2.
PLOD1: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in epidermisdevelopment; peptidyl-lysine hydroxylation; and response to hypoxia. Locatedin extracellular exosome. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome kyphoscoliotictype 1.
B4GALT7: Enables beta-N-acetylglucosaminylglycopeptide beta-1,4-galactosyltransferaseactivity; manganese ion binding activity; and xylosylprotein 4-beta-galactosyltransferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including glycoprotein metabolicprocess; glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process; and negative regulation offibroblast proliferation. Located in Golgi apparatus and membrane. Implicatedin Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome spondylodysplastic type1.
PRDM5: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; DNA-bindingtranscription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and RNA polymeraseII cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including histone modification; negative regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of extracellular matrixorganization. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Located in nuclear body and nucleolus. Implicated inbrittle cornea syndrome 2.
////
FANCC: Involved in protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin and cytosol.Part of Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingFanconi anemia (multiple); acute myeloid leukemia; aspirin-induced respiratorydisease; pancreatic cancer; and pancytopenia. Biomarker of tongue squamouscell carcinoma.
FANCD2: Enables DNA polymerase binding activity. Involved in response to gammaradiation. Located in DNA repair complex; cytosol; and nuclear lumen. Implicatedin Fanconi anemia; Fanconi anemia complementation group D2; and breast cancer.Biomarker of breast cancer and skin melanoma.
FANCA: Involved in protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm.Part of Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingFanconi anemia (multiple); acute myeloid leukemia; esophagus squamous cellcarcinoma; ovarian disease (multiple); and skin melanoma.
FANCB: Involved in protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin. Partof Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementationgroup B and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Biomarker of tongue squamouscell carcinoma.
FANCE: Involved in protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin. Partof Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementationgroup E.
FANCF: Predicted to contribute to ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involvedin protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Partof Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementationgroup F; adenocarcinoma in situ; and granulosa cell tumor. Biomarker of tonguesquamous cell carcinoma.
BRCA2: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;histone acetyltransferase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; establishmentof protein localization to telomere; and histone acetylation. Located in severalcellular components, including centrosome; chromosome, telomeric region; andnucleus. Part of BRCA2-MAGE-D1 complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingFanconi anemia (multiple); esophagus squamous cell carcinoma; hereditary breastovarian cancer syndrome; melanoma (multiple); and reproductive organ cancer(multiple). Biomarker of colorectal cancer and colorectal carcinoma.
FANCI: Enables DNA polymerase binding activity. Acts upstream of or withinpositive regulation of protein ubiquitination. Located in DNA repair complex;cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in Fanconi anemia; Fanconi anemia complementationgroup I; and female breast cancer. Biomarker of tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
BRIP1: Enables 5''-3'' DNA helicase activity. Acts upstream of or within regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicatedin Fanconi anemia complementation group J; breast cancer; colorectal cancer;and thrombocytopenia. Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease; Down syndrome; breastcarcinoma; cervical squamous cell carcinoma; and colorectal cancer.
PALB2: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repairvia homologous recombination. Located in DNA repair complex and nucleoplasm.Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementationgroup N; breast cancer; female breast cancer; and pancreatic cancer.
RAD51C: Contributes to crossover junction DNA endonuclease activity and four-wayjunction DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair viahomologous recombination and positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitoticcell cycle. Located in several cellular components, including nucleoplasm;perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and replication fork. Part of Rad51B-Rad51C-Rad51D-XRCC2complex and Rad51C-XRCC3 complex. Colocalizes with Holliday junction resolvasecomplex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group O and hereditarybreast ovarian cancer syndrome.
SLX4: Enables enzyme activator activity. Involved in DNA metabolic processand regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream of or within responseto intra-S DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in cell junction; cytosol;and nucleoplasm. Part of Slx1-Slx4 complex. Colocalizes with ERCC4-ERCC1 complex;Holliday junction resolvase complex; and chromosome. Implicated in Fanconianemia complementation group P.
FANCG: Predicted to enable damaged DNA binding activity. Involved in mitochondrionorganization and protein monoubiquitination. Located in several cellular components,including chromatin; mitochondrion; and nucleolus. Part of Fanconi anaemianuclear complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia; Fanconi anemia complementationgroup G; and pancreatic cancer. Biomarker of tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
FANCL: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Involved in DNA repair and protein monoubiquitination. Locatedin chromatin and nuclear body. Part of Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicatedin Fanconi anemia complementation group L. Biomarker of tongue squamous cellcarcinoma.
ERCC4: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to 3'' overhang single-strandedDNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity and DNA binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of double-strandedtelomeric DNA binding activity; and negative regulation of telomere maintenance.Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-excision repair. Located in chromosome,telomeric region and nucleus. Part of ERCC4-ERCC1 complex and nucleotide-excisionrepair factor 1 complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation groupQ; XFE progeroid syndrome; pancreatic cancer; polyneuropathy due to drug;and xeroderma pigmentosum (multiple). Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
UBE2T: Enables chromatin binding activity; ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in DNA repair andprotein ubiquitination. Located in nucleolus and nucleoplasm. Implicated inFanconi anemia complementation group T.
MAD2L2: Enables JUN kinase binding activity and RNA polymerase II-specificDNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA repair; regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolicprocess; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in cytosol;nucleolus; and spindle. Part of zeta DNA polymerase complex. Colocalizes withanaphase-promoting complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation groupV.
RAD51: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; DNA bindingactivity; and catalytic activity, acting on DNA. Involved in several processes,including DNA metabolic process; cellular response to camptothecin; and regulationof DNA metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within double-strand break repairvia homologous recombination. Located in several cellular components, includingchromosome; nucleus; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of protein-containingcomplex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group R; breast cancer;congenital mirror movement disorder; and ovarian cancer. Biomarker of breastcancer.
XRCC2: Contributes to four-way junction DNA binding activity. Involved inDNA recombination; centrosome cycle; and mitotic cell cycle. Located in centrosome;nucleoplasm; and replication fork. Part of Rad51B-Rad51C-Rad51D-XRCC2 complex.Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group U; pancreatic cancer; primaryovarian insufficiency 17; and spermatogenic failure 50.
////
C1R: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in zymogen activation. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome periodontal type 1.
CASQ2: Enables calcium ion binding activity; calcium ion sequestering activity; and calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to caffeine; regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; and sequestering of calcium ion. Located in cytoplasm. Implicated in catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia 2.
CASTOR1: Enables arginine binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved in cellular response to L-arginine and negative regulation of TORC1 signaling. Located in cytosol. Colocalizes with GATOR2 complex.
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein kinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle and positive regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in nuclear body and nucleolus. Part of PCNA-p21 complex and cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicated in high grade glioma; ocular hypertension; oral mucosa leukoplakia; oral squamous cell carcinoma; and primary open angle glaucoma. Biomarker of several diseases, including Barrett's esophagus; Fuchs' endothelial dystrophy; autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); and papilloma (multiple).
DDX56: Enables RNA stem-loop binding activity. Involved in defense response to virus. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on modulation by host of viral RNA genome replication. Located in cytosol and nucleolus.
EPN1: Enables molecular sequestering activity. Involved in negative regulation of sprouting angiogenesis. Predicted to be located in presynapse. Predicted to be extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane; extrinsic component of postsynaptic membrane; and extrinsic component of presynaptic membrane. Predicted to be part of clathrin vesicle coat. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; endosome; and postsynapse.
FTH1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in intracellular sequestering of iron ion and negative regulation of fibroblast proliferation. Located in autolysosome. Implicated in hemochromatosis type 5. Biomarker of COVID-19.
GOPC: Enables identical protein binding activity; molecular sequestering activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of anion channel activity and negative regulation of protein localization to cell surface. Located in Golgi apparatus; membrane; and trans-Golgi network transport vesicle. Part of protein-containing complex.
HSPBP1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and positive regulation of protein ubiquitination.
IMPACT: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and ribosome binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including GCN2-mediated signaling; cellular response to starvation; and negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be part of polysome.
INSIG1: Enables oxysterol binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SREBP signaling pathway; SREBP-SCAP complex retention in endoplasmic reticulum; and negative regulation of intracellular transport. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. Part of SREBP-SCAP-Insig complex.
INSIG2: Enables oxysterol binding activity. Involved in SREBP signaling pathway; SREBP-SCAP complex retention in endoplasmic reticulum; and cholesterol biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. Part of SREBP-SCAP-Insig complex.
LAPTM5: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to tumor cell; positive regulation of lysosomal membrane permeability; and regulation of programmed cell death. Located in several cellular components, including lysosomal membrane; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and transport vesicle. Part of protein-containing complex.
LCN2: Enables enterobactin binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and iron ion binding activity. Involved in defense response to bacterium and sequestering of iron ion. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in urinary tract infection. Biomarker of several diseases, including congenital diaphragmatic hernia; hidradenitis suppurativa; hydronephrosis; hypertension (multiple); and kidney disease (multiple).
NFKBIA: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; nuclear localization sequence binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macrophage derived foam cell differentiation; positive regulation of cholesterol efflux; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity. Located in cytosol; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including childhood-onset asthma; ectodermal dysplasia and immunodeficiency 2; hematologic cancer (multiple); hepatitis B; and lung disease (multiple). Biomarker of nephrotic syndrome; prostate adenocarcinoma; prostate cancer; and pulmonary tuberculosis.
PRDX4: Enables molecular adaptor activity and molecular sequestering activity. Predicted to be involved in cell redox homeostasis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of male germ cell proliferation; peptidyl-proline hydroxylation to 4-hydroxy-L-proline; and protein maturation by protein folding. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus.
PRNP: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; cuprous ion binding activity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling using intracellular calcium source; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and protein destabilization. Acts upstream of or within cellular response to copper ion. Located in several cellular components, including membrane raft; mitochondrial outer membrane; and nuclear membrane. Colocalizes with dendrite. Implicated in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease; Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome; Huntington's disease-like 1; fatal familial insomnia; and kuru.
S100A7: Enables RAGE receptor binding activity and calcium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade; positive regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to bacterium. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; endoplasmic reticulum; and extracellular space.
SEC14L1: Enables RIG-I binding activity. Involved in choline transport and negative regulation of RIG-I signaling pathway. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Colocalizes with Golgi apparatus.
SESN2: Enables several functions, including leucine binding activity; protein sequestering activity; and sulfiredoxin activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to leucine; cellular response to starvation; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Located in cytoplasm. Part of Atg1/ULK1 kinase complex.
SLC39A4: Enables metal ion binding activity and zinc ion transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in sequestering of metal ion. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle and plasma membrane. Implicated in acrodermatitis enteropathica.
SPI1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity; DNA-binding transcription repressor activity; and STAT family protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including epigenetic regulation of gene expression; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of hemopoiesis. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on TRAIL-activated apoptotic signaling pathway. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Part of transcription regulator complex. Implicated in agammaglobulinemia 10.
STAT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of erythrocyte differentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nucleus. Part of transcription regulator complex. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); hyper IgE recurrent infection syndrome 1; reproductive organ cancer (multiple); and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of several diseases, including Churg-Strauss syndrome; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); kidney cancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); and lymphoma (multiple).
TCN1: Enables molecular sequestering activity. Predicted to be involved in cobalamin transport. Located in extracellular space.
TMC8: Enables protein sequestering activity and tumor necrosis factor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of protein binding activity; negative regulation of protein-containing complex assembly; and regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and nuclear membrane. Implicated in epidermodysplasia verruciformis.
TRIM15: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of intracellular transport of viral material; and regulation of gene expression. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm.
TSSC4: 
XAF1: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in response to interferon-beta. Located in mitochondrion and nucleoplasm.
YWHAZ: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein sequestering activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi reassembly; establishment of Golgi localization; and regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Located in several cellular components, including blood microparticle; extracellular exosome; and focal adhesion. Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
ZAR1: Predicted to enable mRNA base-pairing translational repressor activity. Predicted to be involved in translation. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm.
////
GABBR1: Contributes to G protein-coupled GABA receptor activity. Involved in adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway and gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway. Located in G protein-coupled GABA receptor complex. Part of G protein-coupled receptor heterodimeric complex.
GABRA2: Enables benzodiazepine receptor activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity. Involved in several processes, including chloride transmembrane transport; gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway; and neurotransmitter transport. Located in synaptic vesicle membrane. Part of GABA-A receptor complex. Implicated in alcohol use disorder; autistic disorder; and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 78.
GABRA3: Predicted to enable extracellular ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity. Predicted to contribute to GABA-A receptor activity; benzodiazepine receptor activity; and chloride channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including GABAergic synaptic transmission; chloride transmembrane transport; and gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in postsynaptic membrane. Predicted to be part of GABA-A receptor complex. Predicted to be active in GABA-ergic synapse; dendrite membrane; and synaptic membrane. Implicated in bipolar disorder and multiple sclerosis.
GABRA5: Enables ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including GABAergic synaptic transmission; chloride transmembrane transport; and gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within associative learning and behavioral fear response. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Implicated in bipolar disorder; depressive disorder; and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 79. Biomarker of autistic disorder.
GABRB1: Enables GABA-gated chloride ion channel activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Involved in chloride transmembrane transport and gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway. Located in plasma membrane. Part of GABA-A receptor complex. Implicated in autistic disorder and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 45. Biomarker of autistic disorder.
GABRB2: Contributes to GABA-gated chloride ion channel activity. Involved in chloride transmembrane transport; gamma-aminobutyric acid signaling pathway; and inhibitory synapse assembly. Located in GABA-A receptor complex and plasma membrane. Implicated in autistic disorder and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 92.
GABRR1: Predicted to enable excitatory extracellular ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity and transmitter-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to contribute to GABA-A receptor activity and chloride channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including chemical synaptic transmission; chloride transmembrane transport; and regulation of membrane potential. Predicted to be located in postsynaptic membrane. Predicted to be part of GABA-A receptor complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including GABA-ergic synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and presynaptic membrane.
GLRA1: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity; and taurine binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ethanol; cellular response to zinc ion; and chloride transmembrane transport. Acts upstream of or within regulation of membrane potential and startle response. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle and plasma membrane. Implicated in hyperekplexia 1.
GRIA1: Enables AMPA glutamate receptor activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including modulation of chemical synaptic transmission; neuronal action potential; and response to lithium ion. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular response to ammonium ion; chemical synaptic transmission; and long-term synaptic depression. Located in dendritic spine membrane and recycling endosome. Implicated in autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder and autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorder 76.
GRIA3: Enables AMPA glutamate receptor activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in regulation of receptor recycling and response to lithium ion. Predicted to act upstream of or within chemical postsynaptic transmission; monoatomic ion transmembrane transport; and regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be located in postsynaptic density. Predicted to be part of AMPA glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including glutamatergic synapse; parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse; and synaptic membrane. Implicated in syndromic X-linked intellectual disability 94.
GRIA4: Enables AMPA glutamate receptor activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Involved in negative regulation of smooth muscle cell apoptotic process. Located in extracellular vesicle. Implicated in schizophrenia.
GRIK2: Enables extracellularly glutamate-gated ion channel activity and kainate selective glutamate receptor activity. Involved in positive regulation of synaptic transmission and regulation of short-term neuronal synaptic plasticity. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including dendrite cytoplasm; perikaryon; and postsynaptic density. Predicted to be part of kainate selective glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 synapse; mossy fiber rosette; and synaptic membrane. Implicated in Huntington's disease and autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorder 6.
GRIK3: Enables adenylate cyclase inhibiting G protein-coupled glutamate receptor activity and kainate selective glutamate receptor activity. Involved in G protein-coupled glutamate receptor signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within regulation of membrane potential. Located in plasma membrane.
GRIK4: Enables ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in glutamatergic synaptic transmission and modulation of chemical synaptic transmission. Predicted to be located in membrane and synapse. Predicted to be part of kainate selective glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in glutamatergic synapse; hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 synapse; and synaptic membrane.
GRIK5: Enables kainate selective glutamate receptor activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in glutamatergic synaptic transmission and modulation of chemical synaptic transmission. Predicted to act upstream of or within excitatory postsynaptic potential and regulation of synaptic vesicle fusion to presynaptic active zone membrane. Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane. Biomarker of temporal lobe epilepsy.
GRIN2B: Enables glycine binding activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol and response to ethanol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including alcohol use disorder; autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 6; bipolar disorder; developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 27; and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; temporal lobe epilepsy; and vascular dementia.
GRIN2D: Enables NMDA glutamate receptor activity and glutamate-gated calcium ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 46. Biomarker of schizophrenia.
GRIN3B: Enables ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in ionotropic glutamate receptor signaling pathway; protein insertion into membrane; and regulation of calcium ion transport. Predicted to be located in neuronal cell body. Predicted to be part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 synapse; postsynaptic density membrane; and presynaptic active zone membrane.
KCNA1: Enables delayed rectifier potassium channel activity and disordered domain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including magnesium ion homeostasis; neuromuscular process; and potassium ion transmembrane transport. Located in juxtaparanode region of axon; paranode region of axon; and plasma membrane. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex. Implicated in episodic ataxia type 1.
KCNA2: Enables voltage-gated potassium channel activity. Involved in potassium ion transmembrane transport. Located in plasma membrane. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex. Implicated in developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 32.
KCNA4: Enables voltage-gated potassium channel activity. Involved in potassium ion transmembrane transport. Located in plasma membrane. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex.
KCNC1: Predicted to enable delayed rectifier potassium channel activity. Involved in protein tetramerization. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex. Implicated in progressive myoclonus epilepsy 7.
KCNC2: Predicted to enable delayed rectifier potassium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cellular response to nitric oxide; nitric oxide-cGMP-mediated signaling pathway; and protein complex oligomerization. Predicted to act upstream of or within action potential. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; perikaryon; and synaptic membrane. Predicted to be part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including GABA-ergic synapse; dendrite membrane; and neuronal cell body membrane. Implicated in developmental and epileptic encephalopathy. Biomarker of glioblastoma.
KCNJ11: Enables ankyrin binding activity; transmembrane transporter binding activity; and voltage-gated monoatomic ion channel activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of insulin secretion; potassium ion transmembrane transport; and response to ATP. Located in plasma membrane. Part of inward rectifying potassium channel. Implicated in glucose metabolism disease (multiple).
KCNJ3: Contributes to inward rectifier potassium channel activity. Involved in potassium ion import across plasma membrane. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex.
KCNJ8: Enables ATP-activated inward rectifier potassium channel activity; voltage-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential; and voltage-gated potassium channel activity involved in ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential repolarization. Involved in membrane repolarization during ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential and potassium ion import across plasma membrane. Predicted to be located in mitochondrion; myofibril; and sarcolemma. Predicted to be part of potassium ion-transporting ATPase complex. Predicted to be active in glutamatergic synapse and presynaptic active zone membrane.
KCNJ9: Predicted to enable PDZ domain binding activity and inward rectifier potassium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in potassium ion import across plasma membrane and regulation of monoatomic ion transmembrane transport. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse and presynaptic membrane.
KCNMB4: Enables calcium-activated potassium channel activity. Involved in detection of calcium ion; neuronal action potential; and potassium ion transport. Located in plasma membrane. Part of voltage-gated potassium channel complex.
SCN10A: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity and voltage-gated sodium channel activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of atrial cardiac muscle cell membrane depolarization; regulation of heart contraction; and sodium ion transmembrane transport. Located in extracellular exosome. Part of voltage-gated sodium channel complex. Implicated in familial episodic pain syndrome 2.
SCN1A: Enables voltage-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Involved in cardiac muscle cell action potential involved in contraction. Located in nuclear body and plasma membrane. Implicated in Dravet syndrome; developmental and epileptic encephalopathy; familial hemiplegic migraine 3; generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus; and generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus 2.
////
APH1A: Enables endopeptidase activator activity and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including Notch receptor processing; amyloid-beta formation; and proteolysis. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex.
ARRB1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; arrestin family protein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of gene expression; regulation of protein modification process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in chromatin; cytoplasmic vesicle; and nuclear body. Biomarker of major depressive disorder.
CCND1: Enables enzyme binding activity; proline-rich region binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and response to UV-A. Located in cyclin D1-CDK4 complex and nucleoplasm. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex and transcription repressor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); colorectal cancer; hematologic cancer (multiple); invasive lobular carcinoma; and von Hippel-Lindau disease. Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; colon adenoma; hematologic cancer (multiple); and high grade glioma (multiple).
CUL1: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and protein ubiquitination. Located in plasma membrane. Part of Parkin-FBXW7-Cul1 ubiquitin ligase complex and SCF ubiquitin ligase complex.
DLL1: Enables Notch binding activity; Tat protein binding activity; and receptor ligand activity. Involved in Notch signaling pathway; negative regulation of interleukin-10 production; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Predicted to be located in adherens junction; apical plasma membrane; and membrane raft. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane. Biomarker of temporal arteritis.
DTX1: Enables Notch binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of neuron differentiation and regulation of Notch signaling pathway. Located in cytosol and nuclear body.
DTX2: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in Notch signaling pathway and protein ubiquitination. Located in nuclear membrane and nucleoplasm.
DTX4: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in Notch signaling pathway and protein ubiquitination. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in nucleoplasm.
FBXW11: Predicted to enable dynein complex binding activity and microtubule plus-end binding activity. Predicted to contribute to ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; protein destabilization; and protein polyubiquitination. Located in centrosome. Part of SCF ubiquitin ligase complex.
FZD1: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; Wnt receptor activity; and Wnt-protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including autocrine signaling; canonical Wnt signaling pathway; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cell surface. Biomarker of breast carcinoma.
FZD5: Enables several functions, including Wnt receptor activity; Wnt-protein binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Spemann organizer formation; cellular response to molecule of bacterial origin; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cell surface and plasma membrane.
FZD7: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; Wnt receptor activity; and Wnt-protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Wnt signaling pathway; negative regulation of cell differentiation; and positive regulation of epithelial cell proliferation involved in wound healing. Located in plasma membrane and recycling endosome membrane. Biomarker of nephroblastoma.
HES1: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell differentiation; negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Located in nucleoplasm.
HEYL: Enables AF-1 domain binding activity and DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific. Involved in Notch signaling pathway; negative regulation of androgen receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in nucleus.
JAG1: Enables Notch binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including circulatory system development; negative regulation of cell adhesion; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Located in plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane. Implicated in Alagille syndrome; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; congenital heart disease; multiple sclerosis; and tetralogy of Fallot. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma; multiple sclerosis; osteoarthritis; and temporal arteritis.
KAT2A: Enables several functions, including N-acyltransferase activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including monoubiquitinated histone H2A deubiquitination; protein acylation; and regulation of protein deacetylation. Acts upstream of or within regulation of protein stability. Located in ATAC complex; centrosome; and nucleus. Part of SAGA complex and transcription factor TFTC complex. Colocalizes with oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. Biomarker of lung non-small cell carcinoma.
LFNG: Enables O-fucosylpeptide 3-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. Involved in regulation of somitogenesis. Located in extracellular vesicle. Implicated in spondylocostal dysostosis 3.
MAML2: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in Notch signaling pathway and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleus.
NOTCH1: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivator activity; and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including heart development; negative regulation of endothelial cell migration; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Part of MAML1-RBP-Jkappa- ICN1 complex and receptor complex. Implicated in Adams-Oliver syndrome; adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; and aortic valve disease 1. Biomarker of cholangiocarcinoma and endometrial cancer.
NOTCH2: Predicted to enable several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; calcium ion binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to tumor cell; heart development; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Located in cell surface; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in Alagille syndrome and Hajdu-Cheney syndrome. Biomarker of multiple myeloma.
NOTCH3: Enables identical protein binding activity and signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in Notch signaling pathway; axon guidance; and wound healing. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including artery morphogenesis; nervous system development; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in several cellular components, including actin cytoskeleton; cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in CADASIL 1; infantile myofibromatosis; and lateral meningocele syndrome.
PPARD: Enables several functions, including linoleic acid binding activity; nuclear receptor activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity. Involved in apoptotic signaling pathway and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be located in chromatin. Implicated in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of biliary tract cancer and pancreatic cancer.
PRKCA: Enables enzyme binding activity; histone H3T6 kinase activity; and protein kinase C activity. Involved in several processes, including desmosome assembly; positive regulation of lipopolysaccharide-mediated signaling pathway; and protein modification process. Located in cytosol; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane. Implicated in dilated cardiomyopathy; high grade glioma; large cell carcinoma; ovarian cancer; and prostate carcinoma. Biomarker of ductal carcinoma in situ; endometrial carcinoma; ovarian carcinoma; and urinary bladder cancer.
PSEN2: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; mitochondrion-endoplasmic reticulum membrane tethering; and proteolysis. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; kinetochore; and nuclear inner membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; Alzheimer's disease 4; breast cancer; and dilated cardiomyopathy 1V.
PSENEN: Enables endopeptidase activator activity and enzyme binding activity. Involved in amyloid-beta formation; positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; and proteolysis. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Implicated in hidradenitis suppurativa.
RBX1: Enables several functions, including cullin family protein binding activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-like protein ligase activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; positive regulation of protein metabolic process; and protein modification by small protein conjugation. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex.
SAP30: Enables transcription corepressor activity. Involved in modulation by host of symbiont transcription and negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of histone deacetylase complex.
SKP1: Enables several functions, including F-box domain binding activity; beta-catenin binding activity; and cullin family protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; positive regulation of ubiquitin protein ligase activity; and protein ubiquitination. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Part of Cul7-RING ubiquitin ligase complex and SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. Colocalizes with PcG protein complex.
ST3GAL6: Enables beta-galactoside alpha-2,3-sialyltransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interleukin-6; glycolipid metabolic process; and oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.
TCF7L2: Enables several functions, including armadillo repeat domain binding activity; beta-catenin binding activity; and gamma-catenin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of protein localization; regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Part of beta-catenin-TCF7L2 complex and protein-DNA complex. Implicated in breast cancer; colorectal cancer; diabetes mellitus (multiple); pancreatic cancer; and prostate cancer. Biomarker of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
WNT2: Enables cytokine activity and frizzled binding activity. Involved in several processes, including midbrain development; positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix and cytoplasm. Is extrinsic component of external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in breast carcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; and urinary system cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer; endometrial carcinoma; and prostate cancer.
WNT5A: Enables frizzled binding activity and receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and regulation of gene expression. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway and positive regulation of protein catabolic process. Located in extracellular space. Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome 1. Biomarker of endometrial carcinoma.
////
ATP2B1: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and P-type calcium transporter activity involved in regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion export across plasma membrane; negative regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration; and regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane. Is active in GABA-ergic synapse and glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder.
ATP2B2: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; P-type calcium transporter activity; and PDZ domain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion transport; regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration; and sensory perception of sound. Located in cytoplasm and plasma membrane. Is active in GABA-ergic synapse and glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness and autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness 12.
CACNA1C: Enables alpha-actinin binding activity; calmodulin binding activity; and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Contributes to voltage-gated calcium channel activity involved in cardiac muscle cell action potential. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion transmembrane transport via high voltage-gated calcium channel; embryonic forelimb morphogenesis; and regulation of heart contraction. Located in cytoplasm; plasma membrane; and postsynaptic density. Part of L-type voltage-gated calcium channel complex. Implicated in Brugada syndrome 3 and Timothy syndrome.
CACNG2: Predicted to enable channel regulator activity and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including neurotransmitter receptor transport, postsynaptic endosome to lysosome; positive regulation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission; and postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor diffusion trapping. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including membrane depolarization; membrane hyperpolarization; and neuromuscular junction development. Predicted to be located in endocytic vesicle membrane and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of AMPA glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 synapse; and postsynaptic density membrane. Implicated in autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 10.
CACNG3: Predicted to enable channel regulator activity and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including intracellular protein transport; positive regulation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission; and postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor diffusion trapping. Predicted to be located in somatodendritic compartment. Predicted to be part of AMPA glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and postsynaptic density membrane. Implicated in childhood absence epilepsy and macular degeneration.
CACNG4: Enables calcium channel regulator activity. Involved in regulation of AMPA receptor activity. Part of L-type voltage-gated calcium channel complex. Biomarker of acute myocardial infarction.
CACNG5: Predicted to enable channel regulator activity and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Involved in regulation of postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor activity. Is active in glutamatergic synapse.
CACNG7: Enables calcium channel regulator activity. Involved in regulation of AMPA receptor activity. Part of L-type voltage-gated calcium channel complex.
CACNG8: Predicted to enable calcium channel regulator activity and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Involved in regulation of AMPA receptor activity. Predicted to be located in postsynaptic density. Predicted to be part of AMPA glutamate receptor complex and L-type voltage-gated calcium channel complex. Predicted to be active in Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and postsynaptic density membrane. Biomarker of dilated cardiomyopathy.
CHRNA10: Predicted to enable acetylcholine-gated monoatomic cation-selective channel activity. Involved in membrane depolarization. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in cholinergic synapse; neuron projection; and postsynaptic specialization membrane.
CHRNA7: Enables several functions, including acetylcholine binding activity; amyloid-beta binding activity; and postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of amyloid-beta formation; positive regulation of angiogenesis; and regulation of nitric oxide metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. Located in plasma membrane. Part of acetylcholine-gated channel complex. Implicated in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; esophagus squamous cell carcinoma; respiratory system cancer (multiple); and schizophrenia. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; Crohn's disease; Lewy body dementia; esophagus squamous cell carcinoma; and ulcerative colitis.
CHRNA9: Enables acetylcholine-gated monoatomic cation-selective channel activity. Involved in membrane depolarization and regulation of nitric oxide metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Located in plasma membrane. Part of acetylcholine-gated channel complex. Implicated in lung small cell carcinoma.
DRD2: Enables dopamine neurotransmitter receptor activity, coupled via Gi/Go and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; arachidonic acid secretion; and negative regulation of transport. Acts upstream of or within phospholipase C-activating dopamine receptor signaling pathway. Located in ciliary membrane and non-motile cilium. Implicated in several diseases, including depressive disorder; end stage renal disease; migraine with aura; obesity; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia.
F2R: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and thrombin-activated receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including caveola; endosome; and platelet dense tubular network. Biomarker of pre-eclampsia.
GPM6A: Predicted to enable calcium channel activity. Involved in neuron migration and stem cell differentiation. Located in extracellular exosome.
GRIN1: Enables glutamate binding activity; glutamate-gated calcium ion channel activity; and glycine binding activity. Contributes to NMDA glutamate receptor activity and calcium channel activity. Involved in several processes, including ionotropic glutamate receptor signaling pathway; response to ethanol; and response to glycine. Located in dendrite and plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in alcohol use disorder; autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 8; cerebral infarction; and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.
GRIN2A: Enables glutamate-gated calcium ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol and response to ethanol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in Huntington's disease; bipolar disorder; colorectal cancer; and schizophrenia. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; nasopharynx carcinoma; and vascular dementia.
GRIN2B: Enables glycine binding activity and ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol and response to ethanol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including alcohol use disorder; autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 6; bipolar disorder; developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 27; and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; temporal lobe epilepsy; and vascular dementia.
GRIN2C: Enables NMDA glutamate receptor activity and glutamate-gated calcium ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex.
GRIN2D: Enables NMDA glutamate receptor activity and glutamate-gated calcium ion channel activity. Involved in calcium ion transmembrane import into cytosol. Located in plasma membrane. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Implicated in developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 46. Biomarker of schizophrenia.
GRIN3A: Enables NMDA glutamate receptor activity; glycine binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in response to ethanol. Located in several cellular components, including neuron projection; neuronal cell body; and synapse. Part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex.
GRIN3B: Enables ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynaptic membrane potential. Predicted to be involved in ionotropic glutamate receptor signaling pathway; protein insertion into membrane; and regulation of calcium ion transport. Predicted to be located in neuronal cell body. Predicted to be part of NMDA selective glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 synapse; postsynaptic density membrane; and presynaptic active zone membrane.
HTR2A: Enables several functions, including 1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)propan-2-amine binding activity; Gq/11-coupled serotonin receptor activity; and serotonin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of phospholipase C activity; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling; and positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol biosynthetic process. Located in plasma membrane. Part of G protein-coupled serotonin receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including alcohol use disorder; anorexia nervosa; major depressive disorder; obesity; and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
ITPR1: Enables calcium channel inhibitor activity. Involved in negative regulation of calcium-mediated signaling and response to hypoxia. Located in platelet dense granule membrane and platelet dense tubular network. Implicated in Gillespie syndrome; spinocerebellar ataxia type 15; and spinocerebellar ataxia type 29. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
NCS1: Predicted to enable calcium sensitive guanylate cyclase activator activity and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of neuron projection development; regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration; and regulation of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Located in cytoplasm; intracellular membrane-bounded organelle; and plasma membrane.
P2RX4: Enables several functions, including cadherin binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and ligand-gated monoatomic cation channel activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ATP; positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and regulation of muscle system process. Located in cell junction; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and plasma membrane.
P2RX7: Enables extracellularly ATP-gated monoatomic cation channel activity and purinergic nucleotide receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including bleb assembly; negative regulation of cell volume; and positive regulation of bleb assembly. Located in plasma membrane.
PLCB1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; calmodulin binding activity; and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; phosphatidylinositol metabolic process; and positive regulation of JNK cascade. Located in cytoplasm and nuclear speck. Implicated in developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 12 and myelodysplastic syndrome. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; acute myeloid leukemia; and myelodysplastic syndrome.
PSEN1: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; PDZ domain binding activity; and aspartic endopeptidase activity, intramembrane cleaving. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; proteolysis; and regulation of gene expression. Acts upstream of or within cell-cell adhesion and endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion homeostasis. Located in several cellular components, including aggresome; centrosome; and nucleus. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Colocalizes with smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease (multiple); Pick's disease; dilated cardiomyopathy 1U; frontotemporal dementia; and hidradenitis suppurativa.
SLC8A1: Enables ankyrin binding activity; calcium:sodium antiporter activity; and calmodulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including metal ion transport; positive regulation of bone mineralization; and positive regulation of the force of heart contraction. Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane. Part of cell periphery and synapse. Implicated in hypertension. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and pulmonary hypertension.
SLC8A2: Predicted to enable calcium:monoatomic cation antiporter activity involved in regulation of postsynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration and calcium:sodium antiporter activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including learning or memory; monoatomic cation transmembrane transport; and regulation of short-term neuronal synaptic plasticity. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including modulation of chemical synaptic transmission; regulation of action potential firing pattern; and response to ischemia. Part of presynapse. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
SLC8A3: Predicted to enable calcium:monoatomic cation antiporter activity involved in regulation of postsynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration and calcium:sodium antiporter activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including learning or memory; monoatomic cation transmembrane transport; and nervous system development. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation; modulation of chemical synaptic transmission; and negative regulation of protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in perinuclear region of cytoplasm and plasma membrane. Part of synapse. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
TRPV1: Enables extracellular ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity and phosphoprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion import across plasma membrane; cellular response to acidic pH; and response to capsazepine. Acts upstream of or within thermoception. Located in membrane. Implicated in migraine.
////
APOH: Enables identical protein binding activity; lipoprotein lipase activatoractivity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of apoptotic process; protein maturation; andregulation of blood coagulation. Located in cell surface and extracellularspace. Part of chylomicron; high-density lipoprotein particle; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix.Implicated in antiphospholipid syndrome; myocardial infarction; and peripheralvascular disease. Biomarker of arteriosclerosis; diabetes mellitus; diabeticretinopathy; macular retinal edema; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
APP: Enables several functions, including PTB domain binding activity; proteindimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; modulationof chemical synaptic transmission; and positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of gene expression.Located in several cellular components, including amyloid-beta complex; cytoplasmicvesicle; and dendrite. Part of high-density lipoprotein particle; intermediate-densitylipoprotein particle; and receptor complex. Colocalizes with several cellularcomponents, including low-density lipoprotein particle; lysosome; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle. Implicated in APP-related cerebral amyloid angiopathy;Alzheimer''s disease; Alzheimer''s disease 1; cognitive disorder; and visualepilepsy. Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease; obesity; and periodontitis.
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components,including chromatin; cyclin D2-CDK4 complex; and nucleus. Part of cyclin-dependentprotein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingbreast cancer (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); ductal carcinoma in situ;hepatitis B; and liver cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, includingcolon adenoma; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); germ cell cancer(multiple); granulosa cell tumor; and hepatitis B.
COL3A1: Enables integrin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; and protease binding activity. An extracellular matrix structuralconstituent. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptorsignaling pathway; cell-matrix adhesion; and collagen fibril organization.Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix and extracellular space.Part of collagen type III trimer. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; Ehlers-Danlossyndrome hypermobility type; end stage renal disease; and vascular type Ehlers-Danlossyndrome.
COL5A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in several processes, including collagen fibril organization;negative regulation of endodermal cell differentiation; and skin development.Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Part of collagen typeV trimer. Implicated in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndromeclassic type 2.
CXCL6: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to lipopolysaccharide; neutrophil activation; and neutrophilchemotaxis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted tobe active in extracellular space. Biomarker of obstructive sleep apnea andrhinitis.
FGFR1: Enables several functions, including fibroblast growth factor bindingactivity; fibroblast growth factor receptor activity; and heparin bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofendothelial cell migration; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction;and protein phosphorylation. Located in plasma membrane. Part of receptorcomplex. Implicated in several diseases, including Jackson-Weiss syndrome;bone disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple);and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases,including acoustic neuroma; carcinoma (multiple); fatty liver disease; obesity;and prostate cancer.
FSTL1: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including endothelial cell differentiation; endothelialcell migration; and regulation of BMP signaling pathway. Predicted to actupstream of or within hematopoietic stem cell homeostasis. Located in extracellularexosome.
ITGAV: Enables several functions, including extracellular matrix protein bindingactivity; fibronectin binding activity; and integrin binding activity. Contributesto C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; negativeregulation of lipid localization; and regulation of signal transduction. Actsupstream of or within negative regulation of low-density lipoprotein receptoractivity. Located in several cellular components, including cell projectionmembrane; cell surface; and focal adhesion. Part of alphav-beta3 integrin-HMGB1complex; alphav-beta3 integrin-IGF-1-IGF1R complex; and integrin complex.Implicated in abdominal aortic aneurysm and acute myeloid leukemia. Biomarkerof hyperglycemia.
JAG1: Enables Notch binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and phospholipidbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including circulatory systemdevelopment; negative regulation of cell adhesion; and neuronal stem cellpopulation maintenance. Located in plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane.Implicated in Alagille syndrome; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; congenital heartdisease; multiple sclerosis; and tetralogy of Fallot. Biomarker of hepatocellularcarcinoma; multiple sclerosis; osteoarthritis; and temporal arteritis.
JAG2: Enables Notch binding activity and growth factor activity. Involvedin regulation of cell population proliferation; spermatogenesis; and thymicT cell selection. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Implicated inautosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.
KCNJ8: Enables ATP-activated inward rectifier potassium channel activity;voltage-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involved in regulation of presynapticmembrane potential; and voltage-gated potassium channel activity involvedin ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential repolarization. Involvedin membrane repolarization during ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potentialand potassium ion import across plasma membrane. Predicted to be located inmitochondrion; myofibril; and sarcolemma. Predicted to be part of potassiumion-transporting ATPase complex. Predicted to be active in glutamatergic synapseand presynaptic active zone membrane.
LPL: Enables several functions, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan bindingactivity; heparin binding activity; and lipase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasis; positive regulation of lipidstorage; and triglyceride-rich lipoprotein particle remodeling. Located incatalytic complex and extracellular space. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease;artery disease (multiple); familial hyperlipidemia (multiple); muscular disease;and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease and type 2diabetes mellitus.
LRPAP1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; negative regulation of amyloid-betaclearance; and negative regulation of very-low-density lipoprotein particleclearance. Located in several cellular components, including cis-Golgi network;endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; and rough endoplasmicreticulum lumen. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease; dementia; myocardialinfarction; and myopia.
LUM: Enables collagen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in visualperception. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation oftranscription by RNA polymerase II. Located in extracellular exosome. Partof fibrillar collagen trimer. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellularmatrix. Implicated in carotid artery disease; coronary artery disease; andpancreatic cancer. Biomarker of pancreatic cancer and varicose veins.
MSX1: Enables p53 binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNAbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including embryonic nailplate morphogenesis; face morphogenesis; and protein stabilization. Locatedin nucleoplasm. Implicated in cleft lip; cleft palate; orofacial cleft 5;tooth and nail syndrome; and tooth disease (multiple).
NRP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and vascular endothelial growth factorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto hepatocyte growth factor stimulus; positive regulation of cellular componentorganization; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signalingpathway. Located in cytosol; focal adhesion; and plasma membrane. Implicatedin lung non-small cell carcinoma. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
OLR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including leukocyte cell-cell adhesion; lipoproteinmetabolic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation.Predicted to act upstream of or within endocytosis and vasoconstriction. Locatedin nucleoplasm and plasma membrane. Part of receptor complex. Implicated incerebral amyloid angiopathy; coronary artery disease; and myocardial infarction.
PDGFA: Enables several functions, including platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; protein dimerization activity; and signaling receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofintracellular signal transduction; regulation of cell migration; and regulationof phosphate metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in cell surface; extracellular space;and platelet-derived growth factor complex. Implicated in high grade glioma.Biomarker of Leydig cell tumor; breast cancer; leiomyoma; and prostate adenocarcinoma.
PF4: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and heparin bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; and regulationof myeloid cell differentiation. Located in cytoplasm.
PGLYRP1: Enables peptidoglycan binding activity and peptidoglycan immune receptoractivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide; killing of cells of another organism; and response to bacterium.Located in extracellular exosome.
POSTN: Enables metal ion binding activity. Involved in cell adhesion and cellularresponse to vitamin K. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrixand trans-Golgi network. Biomarker of abdominal aortic aneurysm; chronic kidneydisease; congestive heart failure; and degenerative disc disease.
PRG2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring compressionresistance. Predicted to be involved in defense response to bacterium andimmune response. Predicted to act upstream of or within defense response tonematode and regulation of cytokine production. Located in collagen-containingextracellular matrix and extracellular exosome. Biomarker of Chagas disease;asthma; and peritoneum cancer.
PTK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway;protein phosphorylation; and regulation of cell-substrate adhesion. Locatedin several cellular components, including cytoskeleton; cytosol; and focaladhesion. Implicated in leiomyoma; lung small cell carcinoma; and pulmonaryhypertension. Biomarker of ductal carcinoma in situ; endometrial hyperplasia;endometriosis (multiple); lung carcinoma (multiple); and reproductive organcancer (multiple).
S100A4: Enables RAGE receptor binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling.Located in nucleus and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of collagen-containingextracellular matrix.
SERPINA5: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; phosphatidylcholinebinding activity; and retinoic acid binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of hydrolase activity. Located in several cellular components,including external side of plasma membrane; extracellular exosome; and secretorygranule. Part of several cellular components, including protein C inhibitor-KLK3complex; protein C inhibitor-PLAT complex; and protein C inhibitor-PLAU complex.Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix.
SLCO2A1: Predicted to enable prostaglandin transmembrane transporter activityand sodium-independent organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. Predictedto be involved in prostaglandin transport and sodium-independent organic aniontransport. Predicted to act upstream of or within transmembrane transport.Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane.Implicated in primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy.
SPP1: Enables integrin binding activity; ion binding activity; and small moleculebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including androgen catabolicprocess; cellular response to testosterone stimulus; and positive regulationof estradiol secretion. Located in Golgi apparatus and extracellular space.Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); biliaryatresia; coronary artery disease (multiple); disease of cellular proliferation(multiple); and hepatitis. Biomarker of several diseases, including arterydisease (multiple); calcinosis; hepatocellular carcinoma; kidney failure;and progressive osseous heteroplasia.
STC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including chondrocyte proliferation; endothelial cell morphogenesis; and regulationof monoatomic ion transport. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus.
THBD: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and signaling receptoractivity. Predicted to be involved in blood coagulation; negative regulationof fibrinolysis; and negative regulation of platelet activation. Predictedto act upstream of or within female pregnancy. Located in cell surface andserine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingacute kidney failure; atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome; cerebrovasculardisease (multiple); rheumatoid arthritis; and thrombophilia (multiple). Biomarkerof several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease(multiple); end stage renal disease; familial combined hyperlipidemia; andlung disease (multiple).
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV-A; negative regulation of proteolysis; and negative regulationof trophoblast cell migration. Located in extracellular space. Biomarker ofseveral diseases, including CAKUT2; Down syndrome; artery disease (multiple);carcinoma (multiple); and diabetes mellitus (multiple).
TNFRSF21: Involved in apoptotic process; cellular response to tumor necrosisfactor; and negative regulation of myelination. Located in plasma membrane.
VAV2: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and phosphotyrosineresidue binding activity. Involved in regulation of GTPase activity and regulationof cell size. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active incytoplasm.
VCAN: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase binding activity. Predictedto be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring compressionresistance. Involved in glial cell migration. Located in extracellular region.Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in intracranialaneurysm.
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; positive regulationof endothelial cell proliferation; and regulation of nitric oxide mediatedsignal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including VEGF-Acomplex; adherens junction; and secretory granule. Implicated in several diseases,including autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple);hematologic cancer (multiple); hypertension (multiple); and reproductive organcancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease(multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); inflammatorybowel disease (multiple); and respiratory system cancer (multiple).
VTN: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingendodermal cell differentiation; regulation of protein metabolic process;and smooth muscle cell-matrix adhesion. Located in several cellular components,including endoplasmic reticulum; peptidase inhibitor complex; and proteincomplex involved in cell-matrix adhesion. Implicated in Churg-Strauss syndrome;granulomatosis with polyangiitis; and thrombosis. Biomarker of coronary arterydisease and diabetic retinopathy.
////
ACHE: Enables several functions, including acetylcholine binding activity;acetylcholinesterase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin acetylcholine catabolic process; cell adhesion; and osteoblast development.Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; perinuclearregion of cytoplasm; and synapse. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease; epilepsy;and myasthenia gravis. Biomarker of Hirschsprung''s disease; autoimmune disease(multiple); bacterial meningitis; and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).
ADGRG1: Enables heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingangiogenesis; intracellular signal transduction; and vascular endothelialgrowth factor production. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated inbilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria and bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria.
AMOT: Enables angiostatin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and signaling receptor activity. Involved in negative regulation of vascularpermeability and positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including hippo signaling; negativeregulation of angiogenesis; and regulation of cell migration. Located in severalcellular components, including actin cytoskeleton; bicellular tight junction;and ruffle. Colocalizes with COP9 signalosome.
CDK5R1: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activator activity. Involved in positive regulation of signaling receptoractivity; protein phosphorylation; and regulation of macromolecule biosyntheticprocess. Located in nucleoplasm; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and serine/threonineprotein kinase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease. Biomarker of Alzheimer''sdisease.
CDK6: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; FBXO familyprotein binding activity; and cyclin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of cellular senescence; negativeregulation of osteoblast differentiation; and regulation of myeloid cell differentiation.Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nucleoplasm;and ruffle. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicatedin high grade glioma; lung non-small cell carcinoma; pancreatic adenocarcinoma;pancreatic ductal carcinoma; and primary autosomal recessive microcephaly12. Biomarker of high grade glioma (multiple); lung non-small cell carcinoma(multiple); medulloblastoma; and non-functioning pancreatic endocrine tumor.
CELSR1: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity and calciumion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell-cell adhesion; establishmentof planar polarity; and neural tube closure. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including apical protein localization; morphogenesisof an epithelium; and motor neuron migration. Located in nucleoplasm and plasmamembrane. Implicated in hereditary lymphedema.
CNTFR: Enables cytokine binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor activity. Involved inciliary neurotrophic factor-mediated signaling pathway and negative regulationof neuron apoptotic process. Part of CNTFR-CLCF1 complex; apical plasma membrane;and ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor complex.
CRMP1: Enables filamin binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in negative regulation of actin filament binding activity and negativeregulation of neuron projection development. Located in centrosome; cytosol;and midbody.
DPYSL2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in endocytosis.Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane and microtubule.
ETS2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory regionsequence-specific DNA binding activity; and RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-bindingtranscription factor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation oftranscription by RNA polymerase II and positive regulation of transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane.
GLI1: Enables RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity and chromatin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell proliferation; positiveregulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process; and regulationof smoothened signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within positive regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in GLI-SUFU complex and nucleoplasm.Is active in cytoplasm. Implicated in gallbladder cancer. Biomarker of colorectalcancer; gastric adenocarcinoma (multiple); multiple sclerosis; nevoid basalcell carcinoma syndrome; and spina bifida.
HEY1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity;and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of Notch signaling pathway; negativeregulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter involved in smoothmuscle cell differentiation; and negative regulation of transcription regulatoryregion DNA binding activity. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predictedto be part of chromatin. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
HEY2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-bindingtranscription factor binding activity; and histone deacetylase binding activity.Involved in negative regulation of transcription initiation by RNA polymeraseII; negative regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA binding activity;and vascular associated smooth muscle cell development. Part of transcriptionrepressor complex.
L1CAM: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including axon guidance; cell-matrix adhesion; and synapse organization.Located in several cellular components, including axon; cell surface; andneuronal cell body. Implicated in MASA syndrome; hydrocephalus; ovarian carcinoma;pancreatic cancer; and schizophrenia. Biomarker of several diseases, includingbipolar disorder; carcinoma (multiple); colorectal cancer; glioblastoma; andpheochromocytoma.
LDB1: Enables LIM domain binding activity; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-bindingtranscription factor binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription and positive regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromatin. Part of beta-catenin-TCFcomplex.
MYH9: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto actin filament binding activity and microfilament motor activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; myeloid celldifferentiation; and negative regulation of actin filament severing. Actsupstream of or within actin filament-based movement. Located in several cellularcomponents, including actin cytoskeleton; immunological synapse; and myosinII filament. Part of myosin II complex. Colocalizes with COP9 signalosome.Implicated in several diseases, including auditory system disease (multiple);autosomal dominant Alport syndrome; blood platelet disease (multiple); endstage renal disease; and orofacial cleft. Biomarker of MYH-9 related disease.
NF1: Enables GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylcholine binding activity;and phosphatidylethanolamine binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of GTPase activity; regulation of angiogenesis;and regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. Acts upstream ofor within negative regulation of MAPK cascade; negative regulation of cellmigration; and negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. Locatedin axon and dendrite. Implicated in several diseases, including autistic disorder;hematologic cancer (multiple); neurofibromatosis 1; neurofibromatosis-Noonansyndrome; and peripheral nervous system neoplasm (multiple). Biomarker ofacute myeloid leukemia; colon cancer; colorectal carcinoma; lung non-smallcell carcinoma; and malignant astrocytoma.
NKX6-1: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingdetection of glucose; positive regulation of type B pancreatic cell development;and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including enteroendocrine cell differentiation;regulation of axon extension; and regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation.Located in extracellular exosome.
NRCAM: Enables ankyrin binding activity. Involved in angiogenesis and clusteringof voltage-gated sodium channels. Predicted to be located in axon initialsegment. Predicted to be active in axon; glutamatergic synapse; and postsynapticdensity membrane.
NRP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and vascular endothelial growth factorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto hepatocyte growth factor stimulus; positive regulation of cellular componentorganization; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signalingpathway. Located in cytosol; focal adhesion; and plasma membrane. Implicatedin lung non-small cell carcinoma. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
NRP2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin nervous system development and outflow tract septum morphogenesis. Predictedto act upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto leukemia inhibitory factor; negative chemotaxis; and trunk neural crestcell migration. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be activein axon; glutamatergic synapse; and postsynaptic membrane.
OPHN1: Enables phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes,including establishment of epithelial cell apical/basal polarity; neuron differentiation;and regulation of postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor internalization.Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in X-linked mental retardationwith cerebellar hypoplasia and distinctive facial appearance.
PLG: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;protein antigen binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including extracellular matrix disassembly;positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration; and regulationof blood coagulation. Located in cell surface and extracellular space. Isextrinsic component of external side of plasma membrane. Part of collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Implicated in COVID-19; conjunctivitis; hereditary angioedema;plasminogen deficiency type I; and thrombophilia. Biomarker of Noonan syndromeand osteonecrosis.
PML: Enables several functions, including protein dimerization activity; sumo-dependentprotein binding activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of apoptotic process;regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process; and regulationof protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within maintenance of proteinlocation in nucleus. Located in several cellular components, including chromosome,telomeric region; nuclear lumen; and nuclear membrane. Implicated in acutepromyelocytic leukemia and skin cancer. Biomarker of clear cell renal cellcarcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; multiple myeloma; and pre-eclampsia.
PTCH1: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity;cyclin binding activity; and hedgehog family protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cholesterol; chordateembryonic development; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Locatedin several cellular components, including apical part of cell; caveola; andperinuclear region of cytoplasm. Colocalizes with Golgi apparatus. Implicatedin carcinoma (multiple); holoprosencephaly (multiple); nevoid basal cell carcinomasyndrome; and stomach cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including colorectaladenoma; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hyperglycemia; nasopharyngitis;and nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
RASA1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; GTPasebinding activity; and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including blood vessel morphogenesis; negative regulationof cell-matrix adhesion; and regulation of actin filament polymerization.Predicted to be located in cytosol. Implicated in arteriovenous malformationand basal cell carcinoma.
RTN1: Involved in negative regulation of amyloid-beta formation and neurondifferentiation. Located in Golgi membrane and endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
SCG2: Enables chemoattractant activity and cytokine activity. Involved inseveral processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; induction of positivechemotaxis; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in extracellularspace.
SHH: Enables calcium ion binding activity; patched binding activity; and zincion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hemopoiesis;positive regulation of sclerotome development; and positive regulation ofsmoothened signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within epithelial-mesenchymalsignaling involved in prostate gland development. Located in Golgi apparatus;endoplasmic reticulum; and extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases,including Hirschsprung''s disease; holoprosencephaly (multiple); hypoplasticor aplastic tibia with polydactyly; middle cerebral artery infarction; andpolydactyly. Biomarker of several diseases, including autism spectrum disorder;biliary atresia; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); glomerulonephritis(multiple); and multiple sclerosis (multiple).
SLIT1: Enables Roundabout binding activity. Involved in axon extension involvedin axon guidance; motor neuron axon guidance; and negative chemotaxis. Predictedto be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellularspace.
THY1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathway; positive regulation of cell adhesion; and positive regulation ofcellular extravasation. Located in apical plasma membrane; cell surface; andendoplasmic reticulum.
TLE1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involvedin negative regulation of anoikis; negative regulation of signal transduction;and regulation of gene expression. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Partof beta-catenin-TCF complex.
TLE3: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Predicted tobe involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway andnegative regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Located in nucleoplasm.Part of beta-catenin-TCF complex.
UNC5C: Enables protein kinase binding activity and tubulin binding activity.Involved in dorsal root ganglion development. Located in plasma membrane.
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; positive regulationof endothelial cell proliferation; and regulation of nitric oxide mediatedsignal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including VEGF-Acomplex; adherens junction; and secretory granule. Implicated in several diseases,including autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple);hematologic cancer (multiple); hypertension (multiple); and reproductive organcancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease(multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); inflammatorybowel disease (multiple); and respiratory system cancer (multiple).
VLDLR: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;very-low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in glycoprotein transport;receptor-mediated endocytosis; and very-low-density lipoprotein particle clearance.Located in membrane. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in Alzheimer''sdisease; cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation and dysequlibrium syndrome;and dementia. Biomarker of autistic disorder.
////
ABCC8: Enables ATPase-coupled monoatomic cation transmembrane transporter activity; potassium channel activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Predicted to be involved in inorganic cation transmembrane transport. Part of inward rectifying potassium channel. Implicated in glucose metabolism disease (multiple) and hypertension.
AKT3: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cellular senescence; positive regulation of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; and positive regulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm; membrane; and nucleus. Implicated in colon cancer; glioblastoma; prostate adenocarcinoma; prostate cancer; and renal cell carcinoma. Biomarker of lung non-small cell carcinoma; malignant astrocytoma; and pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
CHGA: Involved in several processes, including defense response to bacterium; mast cell chemotaxis; and mast cell degranulation. Located in perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicated in IgA glomerulonephritis; end stage renal disease; hypertension; and prostate cancer. Biomarker of end stage renal disease and pheochromocytoma.
DCX: Enables microtubule binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in neuron migration. Located in neuron projection. Implicated in X-linked lissencephaly 1 and subcortical band heterotopia. Biomarker of high grade glioma and temporal lobe epilepsy.
DPP4: Enables several functions, including chemorepellent activity; peptidase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of extracellular matrix disassembly; negative regulation of neutrophil chemotaxis; and regulation of cell-cell adhesion. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; endocytic vesicle; and lamellipodium. Implicated in Middle East respiratory syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of esophagus squamous cell carcinoma.
ELP4: Enables phosphorylase kinase regulator activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase II complex binding activity. Involved in regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Part of elongator holoenzyme complex and transcription elongation factor complex. Implicated in aniridia.
FOXA2: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including dopaminergic neuron differentiation; negative regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cell junction and nucleoplasm. Implicated in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of lung non-small cell carcinoma.
FOXO1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of catabolic process; positive regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytoplasm. Is active in nucleus. Implicated in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Biomarker of congestive heart failure; hepatocellular carcinoma; and prostate cancer.
G6PC2: Enables glucose-6-phosphatase activity. Involved in glucose homeostasis and regulation of insulin secretion. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Predicted to be active in membrane.
GCG: Enables gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including positive regulation of bicellular tight junction assembly; positive regulation of insulin secretion involved in cellular response to glucose stimulus; and protein kinase A signaling. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of execution phase of apoptosis; positive regulation of gluconeogenesis; and positive regulation of histone H3-K4 methylation. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen; extracellular region; and secretory granule lumen. Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease and prediabetes syndrome.
GCK: Enables ATP binding activity; glucokinase activity; and glucose binding activity. Involved in several processes, including detection of glucose; positive regulation of insulin secretion; and regulation of glucose metabolic process. Located in cytosol. Implicated in artery disease (multiple) and glucose metabolism disease (multiple).
HNF1A: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity; protein dimerization activity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including glucose transmembrane transport; insulin secretion; and positive regulation of transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in colorectal cancer; glucose metabolism disease (multiple); liver disease (multiple); and renal cell carcinoma. Biomarker of chromophobe renal cell carcinoma and colorectal cancer.
IAPP: Enables identical protein binding activity and lipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in inclusion body. Implicated in type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
INS: Enables identical protein binding activity; protease binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of catabolic process; positive regulation of signal transduction; and regulation of protein localization. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in diabetic retinopathy; glucose metabolism disease (multiple); insulinoma; and pancreatic cancer. Biomarker of carcinoma (multiple); disease of metabolism (multiple); osteoarthritis; and prostate cancer.
INSM1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and cyclin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; and transdifferentiation. Part of transcription repressor complex.
ISL1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in heart development; positive regulation of insulin secretion; and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to be part of chromatin. Predicted to be active in nucleus. Implicated in type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
LMO2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in cellular response to thyroid hormone stimulus and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Part of transcription regulator complex.
MAFB: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of erythrocyte differentiation and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex. Is active in nucleus. Implicated in Duane retraction syndrome and multicentric carpotarsal osteolysis syndrome.
NEUROD1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes to sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including insulin secretion; nitric oxide mediated signal transduction; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in nucleus. Part of RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex. Implicated in glucose intolerance; hyperglycemia; maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 6; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of obesity.
NEUROG3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleus. Implicated in congenital malabsorptive diarrhea 4; glucose intolerance; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
NKX2-2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell differentiation and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including enteroendocrine cell differentiation; neurogenesis; and positive regulation of cell differentiation. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be part of chromatin. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
NKX6-1: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including detection of glucose; positive regulation of type B pancreatic cell development; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including enteroendocrine cell differentiation; regulation of axon extension; and regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Located in extracellular exosome.
PAK3: Enables MAP kinase kinase activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in regulation of actin filament polymerization. Predicted to be located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm; glutamatergic synapse; and postsynaptic density. Implicated in non-syndromic X-linked intellectual disability 30.
PAX4: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure development and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II and positive regulation of epithelial cell differentiation. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be part of chromatin. Implicated in diabetic ketoacidosis; maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 9; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
PAX6: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; R-SMAD binding activity; and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including camera-type eye development; pancreatic A cell development; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in bilateral optic nerve hypoplasia; eye disease (multiple); glucose intolerance; and paranoid schizophrenia. Biomarker of pancreatic ductal carcinoma.
PCSK1: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptide biosynthetic process and peptide hormone processing. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in obesity and proprotein convertase 1/3 deficiency.
PCSK2: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in insulin processing. Located in extracellular space; membrane; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
PDX1: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in insulin secretion; nitric oxide mediated signal transduction; and type B pancreatic cell differentiation. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in cerebral infarction; hyperglycemia; maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 4; pancreatic agenesis; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
PKLR: Predicted to enable pyruvate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular response to insulin stimulus and glycolytic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within response to other organism. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Gaucher's disease; congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia; malaria; pyruvate kinase deficiency of red cells; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
SCGN: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of long-term synaptic potentiation and regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and transport vesicle membrane. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including cytosol; dendrite; and terminal bouton.
SEC11A: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in signal peptide processing. Part of signal peptidase complex.
SLC2A2: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity and hexose transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in dehydroascorbic acid transport and hexose transmembrane transport. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in Fanconi syndrome; glycogen storage disease; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of gastrinoma and insulinoma.
SPCS1: Predicted to enable peptidase activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in signal peptide processing; viral protein processing; and virion assembly. Located in signal peptidase complex.
SRP14: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in protein targeting to ER. Located in nucleus. Part of signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulum targeting.
SRP9: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity and signal recognition particle binding activity. Predicted to be involved in SRP-dependent cotranslational protein targeting to membrane. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be part of signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulum targeting.
SRPRB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to ER. Located in cytoplasmic microtubule and membrane.
SST: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of cell migration. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in GABA-ergic synapse; extracellular space; and neuronal dense core vesicle.
STXBP1: Enables syntaxin-1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SNARE complex assembly; platelet aggregation; and regulation of acrosomal vesicle exocytosis. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; nucleoplasm; and platelet alpha granule. Implicated in West syndrome and developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 4.
SYT13: Predicted to enable several functions, including SNARE binding activity; calcium ion binding activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including calcium-ion regulated exocytosis; cellular response to calcium ion; and regulation of secretion by cell. Located in transport vesicle.
VDR: Enables several functions, including lithocholic acid receptor activity; nuclear receptor activity; and steroid binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity and vitamin D response element binding activity. Involved in several processes, including decidualization; mRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Part of RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex and receptor complex. Is active in nucleus. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); lipid storage disease (multiple); melanoma (multiple); and tuberculosis (multiple). Biomarker of autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B; breast cancer; carcinoma (multiple); cholangitis (multiple); and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
////
ADAM17: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursor protein catabolic process; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; regulation of signal transduction; and response to bacterium. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; cell surface; and membrane raft. Colocalizes with cell-cell junction; focal adhesion; and ruffle membrane. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; inflammatory bowel disease; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of renal fibrosis.
AXIN1: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; beta-catenin binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway; positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; and protein-containing complex assembly. Located in lateral plasma membrane; nucleus; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of beta-catenin destruction complex. Implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma; lung cancer; and urinary bladder cancer. Biomarker of carcinoma (multiple); liver cirrhosis; and lung cancer (multiple).
AXIN2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including maintenance of DNA repeat elements; positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Located in centrosome; cytoplasm; and nucleus. Implicated in endometrial adenocarcinoma; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple); and orofacial cleft. Biomarker of colon adenoma; familial adenomatous polyposis; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); and oral mucosa leukoplakia.
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including chromatin; cyclin D2-CDK4 complex; and nucleus. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicated in several diseases, including breast cancer (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); ductal carcinoma in situ; hepatitis B; and liver cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including colon adenoma; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); germ cell cancer (multiple); granulosa cell tumor; and hepatitis B.
CSNK1E: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including canonical Wnt signaling pathway; negative regulation of protein binding activity; and peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm. Implicated in invasive ductal carcinoma. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
CTNNB1: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; alpha-catenin binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including canonical Wnt signaling pathway; epithelial tube morphogenesis; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; euchromatin; and lateral plasma membrane. Part of several cellular components, including beta-catenin destruction complex; beta-catenin-TCF7L2 complex; and catenin complex. Implicated in several diseases, including autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 19; exudative vitreoretinopathy 7; hepatocellular carcinoma (multiple); nephroblastoma; and pilomatrixoma. Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); germ cell cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple); and urinary system cancer (multiple).
CUL1: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and protein ubiquitination. Located in plasma membrane. Part of Parkin-FBXW7-Cul1 ubiquitin ligase complex and SCF ubiquitin ligase complex.
DKK1: Enables co-receptor binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and receptor antagonist activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cell fate specification; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Located in extracellular space and plasma membrane. Implicated in anodontia.
DKK4: Predicted to enable co-receptor binding activity and receptor antagonist activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within Wnt signaling pathway and negative regulation of hair follicle placode formation. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellular space.
DLL1: Enables Notch binding activity; Tat protein binding activity; and receptor ligand activity. Involved in Notch signaling pathway; negative regulation of interleukin-10 production; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Predicted to be located in adherens junction; apical plasma membrane; and membrane raft. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane. Biomarker of temporal arteritis.
DVL2: Enables frizzled binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in Wnt signaling pathway; positive regulation of JUN kinase activity; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in aggresome; cytoplasmic vesicle; and nuclear body.
FRAT1: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity. Involved in beta-catenin destruction complex disassembly; positive regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway; and regulation of protein export from nucleus. Located in cytosol and nucleus.
FZD1: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; Wnt receptor activity; and Wnt-protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including autocrine signaling; canonical Wnt signaling pathway; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cell surface. Biomarker of breast carcinoma.
FZD8: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; Wnt receptor activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in Golgi apparatus. Predicted to be part of Wnt-Frizzled-LRP5/6 complex. Predicted to be active in neuronal dense core vesicle and plasma membrane.
GNAI1: Enables GTP binding activity. Involved in cell division; positive regulation of protein localization to cell cortex; and regulation of mitotic spindle organization. Located in several cellular components, including cell cortex; centrosome; and midbody.
HDAC11: Enables histone deacetylase activity. Involved in histone deacetylation. Located in nucleus and plasma membrane. Part of histone deacetylase complex.
HDAC2: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in linear amides. Contributes to nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including heterochromatin organization; histone deacetylation; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in chromosome, telomeric region; cytoplasm; and nucleoplasm. Part of ESC/E(Z) complex; NuRD complex; and Sin3 complex. Implicated in stomach cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); prostate carcinoma; and pulmonary hypertension.
HDAC5: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Contributes to transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; negative regulation of myotube differentiation; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in Golgi apparatus; cytosol; and nuclear speck. Biomarker of colorectal cancer and pulmonary hypertension.
HEY1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of Notch signaling pathway; negative regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter involved in smooth muscle cell differentiation; and negative regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA binding activity. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be part of chromatin. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
HEY2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and histone deacetylase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II; negative regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA binding activity; and vascular associated smooth muscle cell development. Part of transcription repressor complex.
JAG1: Enables Notch binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including circulatory system development; negative regulation of cell adhesion; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Located in plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane. Implicated in Alagille syndrome; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; congenital heart disease; multiple sclerosis; and tetralogy of Fallot. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma; multiple sclerosis; osteoarthritis; and temporal arteritis.
JAG2: Enables Notch binding activity and growth factor activity. Involved in regulation of cell population proliferation; spermatogenesis; and thymic T cell selection. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Implicated in autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.
KAT2A: Enables several functions, including N-acyltransferase activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including monoubiquitinated histone H2A deubiquitination; protein acylation; and regulation of protein deacetylation. Acts upstream of or within regulation of protein stability. Located in ATAC complex; centrosome; and nucleus. Part of SAGA complex and transcription factor TFTC complex. Colocalizes with oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. Biomarker of lung non-small cell carcinoma.
LEF1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including histone acetylation; positive regulation of cell differentiation; and regulation of gene expression. Located in beta-catenin-TCF complex and cytoplasm. Part of protein-DNA complex and transcription regulator complex. Implicated in ovarian cancer. Biomarker of prostate cancer; prostate carcinoma in situ; and thyroid gland papillary carcinoma.
MAML1: Enables peptide antigen binding activity; protein kinase binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including Notch signaling pathway; positive regulation of myotube differentiation; and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of MAML1-RBP-Jkappa- ICN1 complex.
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 binding activity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulation of fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell population proliferation and regulation of gene expression. Located in chromatin; nucleus; and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including angiosarcoma; demyelinating disease; hematologic cancer (multiple); lung adenocarcinoma; and prostate cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including hepatitis C; leukemia (multiple); liver disease (multiple); polycystic kidney disease 1; and urinary system cancer (multiple).
NCOR2: Enables Notch binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative regulation of RNA metabolic process; negative regulation of androgen receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of cellular ketone metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromatin; nuclear body; and nuclear matrix. Part of transcription repressor complex. Implicated in osteoarthritis. Biomarker of breast cancer and endometrial carcinoma.
NCSTN: Enables ATPase binding activity; growth factor receptor binding activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including Notch receptor processing; amyloid-beta formation; and proteolysis. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; hidradenitis suppurativa; and schizophrenia.
NKD1: Predicted to enable PDZ domain binding activity and calcium ion binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway and positive regulation of protein catabolic process. Part of protein phosphatase type 2A complex.
NOTCH1: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivator activity; and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including heart development; negative regulation of endothelial cell migration; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Part of MAML1-RBP-Jkappa- ICN1 complex and receptor complex. Implicated in Adams-Oliver syndrome; adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; and aortic valve disease 1. Biomarker of cholangiocarcinoma and endometrial cancer.
NOTCH4: Predicted to enable Notch binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell adhesion molecule production; negative regulation of cell-cell adhesion mediated by cadherin; and negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cell surface. Implicated in autoimmune disease (multiple); dementia; ductal carcinoma in situ; schizophrenia; and systemic scleroderma. Biomarker of arteriosclerosis; endometrial cancer; and rheumatoid arthritis.
NUMB: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane and positive regulation of cell migration. Located in clathrin-coated vesicle.
PPARD: Enables several functions, including linoleic acid binding activity; nuclear receptor activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity. Involved in apoptotic signaling pathway and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be located in chromatin. Implicated in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of biliary tract cancer and pancreatic cancer.
PSEN2: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; mitochondrion-endoplasmic reticulum membrane tethering; and proteolysis. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; kinetochore; and nuclear inner membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; Alzheimer's disease 4; breast cancer; and dilated cardiomyopathy 1V.
PTCH1: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity; cyclin binding activity; and hedgehog family protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cholesterol; chordate embryonic development; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in several cellular components, including apical part of cell; caveola; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Colocalizes with Golgi apparatus. Implicated in carcinoma (multiple); holoprosencephaly (multiple); nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome; and stomach cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including colorectal adenoma; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hyperglycemia; nasopharyngitis; and nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
RBPJ: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved in Notch signaling involved in heart development and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of MAML1-RBP-Jkappa- ICN1 complex and transcription repressor complex. Implicated in Adams-Oliver syndrome and dilated cardiomyopathy.
SKP2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in defense response to other organism; proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; and protein K48-linked ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. Implicated in prostate carcinoma. Biomarker of breast cancer; carcinoma (multiple); prostate cancer; and uterine disease (multiple).
TCF7: Enables beta-catenin binding activity and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in cellular response to interleukin-4. Located in nuclear body. Biomarker of prostate cancer.
TP53: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulation of cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including ER overload response; cellular response to glucose starvation; and intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage by p53 class mediator. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nuclear lumen; and transcription repressor complex. Part of transcription regulator complex. Colocalizes with nuclear body. Implicated in several diseases, including Li-Fraumeni syndrome (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); and open-angle glaucoma (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); oral mucosa leukoplakia; oral submucous fibrosis; and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
WNT1: Enables receptor ligand activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell adhesion; negative regulation of cellular senescence; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytoplasm. Implicated in osteogenesis imperfecta type 15 and osteoporosis.
WNT5B: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in chondrocyte differentiation and positive regulation of cell migration. Located in extracellular exosome. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Biomarker of leiomyoma.
WNT6: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and frizzled binding activity. Involved in odontogenesis of dentin-containing tooth; positive regulation of gene expression; and positive regulation of tooth mineralization. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including Golgi lumen; endocytic vesicle membrane; and extracellular exosome. Predicted to be active in extracellular space.
////
ADAM10: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursorprotein catabolic process and molecular adaptor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including constitutive protein ectodomain proteolysis; positiveregulation of T cell chemotaxis; and toxin transport. Acts upstream of orwithin membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis and negative regulation ofgene expression. Located in several cellular components, including perinuclearendoplasmic reticulum; synaptic membrane; and tetraspanin-enriched microdomain.Part of pore complex. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease 18 and reticulateacropigmentation of Kitamura. Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
ADIPOR2: Enables adipokinetic hormone receptor activity and adiponectin bindingactivity. Involved in adiponectin-activated signaling pathway. Located inplasma membrane. Implicated in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
AFAP1L2: Enables SH2 domain binding activity; SH3 domain binding activity;and protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signalingpathway; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle.Located in cytosol and plasma membrane.
AKAP7: Enables protein kinase A binding activity. Involved in cellular responseto cAMP; positive regulation of delayed rectifier potassium channel activity;and regulation of membrane repolarization. Located in apical plasma membrane;cytosol; and lateral plasma membrane. Part of protein-containing complex.
APP: Enables several functions, including PTB domain binding activity; proteindimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; modulationof chemical synaptic transmission; and positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of gene expression.Located in several cellular components, including amyloid-beta complex; cytoplasmicvesicle; and dendrite. Part of high-density lipoprotein particle; intermediate-densitylipoprotein particle; and receptor complex. Colocalizes with several cellularcomponents, including low-density lipoprotein particle; lysosome; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle. Implicated in APP-related cerebral amyloid angiopathy;Alzheimer''s disease; Alzheimer''s disease 1; cognitive disorder; and visualepilepsy. Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease; obesity; and periodontitis.
ATP6V0A4: Enables ATPase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including proton transmembrane transport; renal tubular secretion; and sensoryperception of sound. Located in apical plasma membrane and brush border membrane.Part of vacuolar proton-transporting V-type ATPase complex. Implicated inrenal tubular acidosis.
ATP8B1: Enables phosphatidylcholine flippase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including apical protein localization; regulation of microvillusassembly; and xenobiotic transmembrane transport. Located in several cellularcomponents, including Golgi apparatus; apical plasma membrane; and nuclearbody. Part of phospholipid-translocating ATPase complex. Implicated in benignrecurrent intrahepatic cholestasis 1; intrahepatic cholestasis; intrahepaticcholestasis of pregnancy 1; and progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis1.
B4GALT1: Enables several functions, including UDP-galactosyltransferase activity;manganese ion binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved inoligosaccharide biosynthetic process and protein N-linked glycosylation. Locatedin several cellular components, including Golgi trans cisterna; basolateralplasma membrane; and brush border membrane. Implicated in congenital disorderof glycosylation and congenital disorder of glycosylation type IId.
BRCA1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; nucleicacid binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA repair; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and protein ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to DNA damage. Located in several cellular components,including DNA repair complex; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of BRCA1-Acomplex; BRCA1-BARD1 complex; and ribonucleoprotein complex. Is active inintracellular non-membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in several diseases,including breast cancer (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; gastrointestinalsystem cancer (multiple); hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome; and reproductiveorgan cancer (multiple). Biomarker of breast cancer (multiple); gastrointestinalsystem cancer (multiple); and lung non-small cell carcinoma.
CD160: Enables immune receptor activity; kinase binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negativeregulation of adaptive immune memory response; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinasesignaling; and regulation of lymphocyte activation. Located in plasma membrane.
CROCC: Predicted to enable kinesin binding activity and structural moleculeactivity. Involved in several processes, including centriole-centriole cohesion;positive regulation of cilium assembly; and positive regulation of proteinlocalization to cilium. Located in cytoskeleton; cytosol; and plasma membrane.
CRYBG1: Predicted to enable carbohydrate binding activity.
CX3CL1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including regulation of cell migration; regulation of gene expression; andregulation of signal transduction. Located in cell surface; extracellularregion; and membrane. Implicated in Cor pulmonale and common cold. Biomarkerof several diseases, including chronic fatigue syndrome; myositis (multiple);polyarteritis nodosa; pulmonary hypertension; and rheumatoid arthritis.
DCBLD2: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Involved in negativeregulation of cell growth and wound healing. Located in cell surface and plasmamembrane.
EFNA5: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including ephrin receptor signaling pathway; regulation of cytoskeleton organization;and regulation of focal adhesion assembly. Acts upstream of or within negativeregulation of substrate adhesion-dependent cell spreading and regulation ofcell morphogenesis. Located in external side of plasma membrane.
EPHB4: Enables ephrin receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includingcell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; ephrin receptor signalingpathway; and protein autophosphorylation. Located in plasma membrane. Implicatedin central conducting lymphatic anomaly. Biomarker of esophagus squamous cellcarcinoma.
FLOT2: Predicted to enable protease binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; and proteinlocalization to cell periphery. Located in several cellular components, includingbasolateral plasma membrane; cytoplasmic vesicle; and uropod. Part of flotillincomplex. Colocalizes with cortical actin cytoskeleton.
GAS1: Involved in several processes, including cellular response to vascularendothelial growth factor stimulus; negative regulation of protein processing;and regulation of ER to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in plasmamembrane.
GATA3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and HMG boxdomain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to cytokine stimulus; negative regulation of endothelial cell apoptoticprocess; and regulation of gene expression. Acts upstream of or within T celldifferentiation and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Implicated in hypoparathyroidism;hypoparathyroidism-deafness-renal disease syndrome; nephrosis; and sensorineuralhearing loss. Biomarker of asthma.
GHRL: Enables protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of cytokine production; positiveregulation of hormone secretion; and regulation of circadian sleep/wake cycle,sleep. Acts upstream of or within dendrite development and positive regulationof synapse assembly. Located in axon and extracellular space. Implicated indiabetic neuropathy; esophagus adenocarcinoma; morbid obesity; obesity; andtype 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of Prader-Willi syndrome; cardiovascularsystem disease; and end stage renal disease.
GSTM3: Enables several functions, including glutathione binding activity;glutathione transferase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular detoxification of nitrogen compound;nitrobenzene metabolic process; and response to estrogen. Located in cytosoland intercellular bridge. Implicated in several diseases, including Alzheimer''sdisease; cystic fibrosis; larynx cancer; multiple sclerosis; and osteosarcoma.Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease; asthma; macular degeneration; and pulmonaryemphysema.
HSPB1: Enables several functions, including protein folding chaperone; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including anterograde axonal protein transport; positiveregulation of angiogenesis; and positive regulation of endothelial cell migration.Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth diseaseaxonal type 2F; distal hereditary motor neuropathy type 2B; pancreatic cancer;and sarcoma. Biomarker of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and rheumatoidarthritis.
IL2RB: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity; interleukin-2 binding activity;and interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signalingpathway; interleukin-2-mediated signaling pathway; and positive regulationof phagocytosis. Acts upstream of or within cytokine-mediated signaling pathwayand negative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cell surface andplasma membrane. Implicated in asthma; immunodeficiency 63; myasthenia gravis;and visceral leishmaniasis. Biomarker of COVID-19 and hepatitis B.
IL2RG: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediatedsignaling pathway and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in cellsurface. Implicated in X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency; combinedT cell and B cell immunodeficiency; and severe combined immunodeficiency.Biomarker of COVID-19.
LYN: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity;non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and scaffold proteinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptorsignaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolic process; and proteinphosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus;membrane raft; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
LYPD3: Predicted to enable laminin binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of smooth muscle cell apoptotic process. Located in extracellularspace.
MAL: A structural constituent of myelin sheath. Predicted to be involved inmyelination. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation ofextrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. Locatedin endoplasmic reticulum and membrane raft. Implicated in metachromatic leukodystrophy.
MDGA1: Involved in regulation of presynapse assembly and regulation of synapticmembrane adhesion. Located in Golgi apparatus and plasma membrane. Is activein GABA-ergic synapse.
NCOA6: Enables enzyme binding activity; nuclear receptor coactivator activity;and nuclear thyroid hormone receptor binding activity. Involved in DNA-templatedtranscription initiation; myeloid cell differentiation; and positive regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II. Acts upstream of or within DNA damageresponse. Located in MLL3/4 complex and cytosol. Part of histone methyltransferasecomplex. Implicated in breast cancer; colon cancer; and lung cancer.
NTNG1: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity. Involved in synapticmembrane adhesion. Located in plasma membrane.
PCSK9: Enables several functions, including lipoprotein particle receptorbinding activity; serine-type endopeptidase activity; and sodium channel inhibitoractivity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis;low-density lipoprotein particle receptor catabolic process; and regulationof receptor-mediated endocytosis. Located in several cellular components,including endosome; lysosome; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part ofPCSK9-AnxA2 complex and PCSK9-LDLR complex. Implicated in familial hypercholesterolemiaand hypobetalipoproteinemia.
PKHD1: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of NF-kappaBtranscription factor activity; regulation of cholangiocyte proliferation;and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Located in apical plasmamembrane; microtubule cytoskeleton; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicatedin autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease and polycystic kidney disease4.
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation ofepidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulationof release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Located in several cellularcomponents, including cell surface; protein complex involved in cell-matrixadhesion; and serine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicated in rheumatoidarthritis. Biomarker of several diseases, including Lyme disease; artery disease(multiple); end stage renal disease; hepatitis B; and melioidosis.
RHCG: Enables ammonium transmembrane transporter activity; ankyrin bindingactivity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in ammonium transmembranetransport; intracellular monoatomic ion homeostasis; and transepithelial ammoniumtransport. Located in apical plasma membrane and basolateral plasma membrane.
RTN4RL1: Enables signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involved innegative regulation of axon regeneration. Located in cell surface and plasmamembrane.
SCUBE1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulationof smoothened signaling pathway. Located in external side of plasma membraneand extracellular space. Is extrinsic component of plasma membrane.
SHROOM2: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity; beta-cateninbinding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including apical protein localization;establishment of melanosome localization; and pigment granule organization.Predicted to act upstream of or within cell-cell junction maintenance andnegative regulation of actin filament depolymerization. Located in extracellularexosome. Colocalizes with cortical actin cytoskeleton.
SLC22A12: Enables PDZ domain binding activity and urate transmembrane transporteractivity. Involved in response to xenobiotic stimulus; urate metabolic process;and urate transport. Located in apical plasma membrane.
SLC2A4: Predicted to enable glucose uniporter activity. Involved in cellularresponse to insulin stimulus. Acts upstream of or within glucose homeostasis.Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic vesicle; externalside of plasma membrane; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of trans-Golginetwork. Implicated in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of congestive heartfailure.
SLC34A3: Enables sodium:phosphate symporter activity. Involved in intracellularphosphate ion homeostasis; phosphate ion transport; and sodium ion transport.Predicted to be located in brush border membrane. Predicted to be active inapical plasma membrane; brush border; and vesicle. Implicated in hereditaryhypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria.
SRPX: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in phagolysosome assembly. Predicted to act upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation of cell proliferationinvolved in contact inhibition; positive regulation of extrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in absence of ligand; and response to endoplasmic reticulumstress. Part of collagen-containing extracellular matrix.
SULF2: Enables N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase activity and arylsulfataseactivity. Involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycan metabolic process and positiveregulation of Wnt signaling pathway. Located in cell surface and endoplasmicreticulum.
THY1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathway; positive regulation of cell adhesion; and positive regulation ofcellular extravasation. Located in apical plasma membrane; cell surface; andendoplasmic reticulum.
TMEM8B: Involved in cell-matrix adhesion. Located in cell surface and plasmamembrane.
////
ABCC1: Enables several functions, including ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activity; efflux transmembrane transporter activity; and xenobiotic transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, including lipid translocation; transepithelial transport; and xenobiotic transport across blood-brain barrier. Located in basal plasma membrane. Part of apical plasma membrane; basolateral plasma membrane; and lateral plasma membrane. Implicated in autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness 77 and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Biomarker of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
ATOX1: Enables copper chaperone activity; copper-dependent protein binding activity; and cuprous ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in copper ion transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within intracellular copper ion homeostasis. Predicted to be active in cytosol.
CAT: Enables several functions, including catalase activity; heme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including UV protection; cellular detoxification of hydrogen peroxide; and hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in catalase complex and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of protein-containing complex. Is active in peroxisome. Implicated in several diseases, including acatalasia; eye disease (multiple); lung disease (multiple); osteonecrosis; and pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Biomarker of several diseases, including Raynaud disease; autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); eye disease (multiple); and lung disease (multiple).
CDKN2D: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of apoptotic process; regulation of phosphorylation; and response to vitamin D. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm.
EGLN2: Enables ferrous iron binding activity; oxygen sensor activity; and peptidyl-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Involved in several processes, including cell redox homeostasis; peptidyl-proline hydroxylation to 4-hydroxy-L-proline; and positive regulation of protein catabolic process. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in renal cell carcinoma.
ERCC2: Enables 5'-3' DNA helicase activity and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including hair cell differentiation; nucleic acid metabolic process; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition. Acts upstream of or within UV protection. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and spindle. Part of CAK-ERCC2 complex; MMXD complex; and RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex. Implicated in several diseases, including acoustic neuroma; acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; carcinoma (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); and xeroderma pigmentosum (multiple). Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; Down syndrome; and colorectal cancer.
FES: Enables immunoglobulin receptor binding activity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and phosphatidylinositol binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cellular component organization; positive regulation of monocyte differentiation; and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm; focal adhesion; and microtubule cytoskeleton. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane. Colocalizes with cytoplasmic vesicle. Implicated in esophagus squamous cell carcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; and lung adenocarcinoma.
FTL: Enables identical protein binding activity and iron ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular sequestering of iron ion. Located in autolysosome. Part of intracellular ferritin complex. Implicated in basal ganglia disease; hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome; neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation 3; and neurodegenerative disease. Biomarker of COVID-19.
G6PD: Enables several functions, including glucose binding activity; glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including erythrocyte maturation; negative regulation of protein glutathionylation; and pentose-phosphate shunt, oxidative branch. Located in several cellular components, including centriolar satellite; cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane; and cytosol. Implicated in several diseases, including anemia (multiple); cerebrovascular disease; favism; malaria (multiple); and neonatal jaundice. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
GCLC: Enables anion binding activity; glutamate-cysteine ligase activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including alpha-amino acid metabolic process; cell redox homeostasis; and glutathione biosynthetic process. Part of glutamate-cysteine ligase complex. Implicated in cystic fibrosis; glutamate-cysteine ligase deficiency; hemolytic anemia; and myocardial infarction. Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
GCLM: Enables glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit binding activity. Contributes to glutamate-cysteine ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including blood vessel diameter maintenance; glutamate metabolic process; and glutathione biosynthetic process. Part of glutamate-cysteine ligase complex. Implicated in myocardial infarction and vascular dementia.
GLRX: Enables glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Involved in positive regulation of membrane potential and positive regulation of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity. Located in extracellular exosome.
GLRX2: Predicted to enable protein-disulfide reductase activity. Involved in response to hydrogen peroxide. Located in mitochondrion and nucleoplasm.
GPX3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and selenium binding activity. Predicted to be involved in hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular oxidant detoxification. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in Barrett's esophagus; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of colorectal adenoma; diabetes mellitus (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); nephrotic syndrome; and respiratory system cancer (multiple).
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved in arachidonic acid metabolic process; lipoxygenase pathway; and protein polymerization. Located in cytosol. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in colorectal adenocarcinoma; colorectal cancer; and spondylometaphyseal dysplasia Sedaghatian type. Biomarker of colon cancer and gastric adenocarcinoma.
GSR: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity and glutathione-disulfide reductase (NADPH) activity. Predicted to be involved in cell redox homeostasis; cellular response to oxidative stress; and glutathione metabolic process. Located in cytosol. Implicated in macular degeneration. Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); cataract (multiple); diabetic angiopathy; hematologic cancer (multiple); and hemolytic anemia (multiple).
HHEX: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; poly(A)+ mRNA export from nucleus; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Part of protein-DNA complex.
HMOX2: Enables heme oxygenase (decyclizing) activity. Involved in response to hypoxia. Located in plasma membrane.
IPCEF1: Predicted to enable peroxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in response to oxidative stress. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and plasma membrane.
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex and nucleoplasm. Part of transcription factor AP-1 complex. Implicated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and melanoma. Biomarker of gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); lung non-small cell carcinoma; and lymphoma (multiple).
LAMTOR5: Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and molecular adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; positive regulation of interleukin-8 production; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity. Located in cytosol and lysosome. Part of Ragulator complex.
LSP1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular defense response. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular response to interleukin-7; chemotaxis; and defense response. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane.
MBP: Enables calmodulin binding activity and lipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including maintenance of blood-brain barrier; negative regulation of heterotypic cell-cell adhesion; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in myelin sheath. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in multiple sclerosis.
MGST1: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity and glutathione transferase activity. Involved in cellular response to lipid hydroperoxide and glutathione transport. Located in mitochondrion.
MPO: Enables heparin binding activity and peroxidase activity. Involved in low-density lipoprotein particle remodeling. Acts upstream of or within hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in azurophil granule; extracellular space; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease 1; cystic fibrosis; kidney failure (multiple); liver disease (multiple); and lung disease (multiple). Biomarker of asthma (multiple); glomerulonephritis; and lung disease (multiple).
MSRA: Predicted to enable L-methionine-(S)-S-oxide reductase activity and peptide-methionine (S)-S-oxide reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular response to oxidative stress. Located in several cellular components, including actin cytoskeleton; cytosol; and nucleoplasm.
NDUFA6: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly and response to oxidative stress. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Part of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. Implicated in nuclear type mitochondrial complex I deficiency 33. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
NDUFB4: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly and response to oxidative stress. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane and nucleoplasm. Part of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I.
NDUFS2: Enables oxygen sensor activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in cellular response to oxygen levels; mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; and response to oxidative stress. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane and nucleoplasm. Part of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. Implicated in Leigh disease; hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; inherited metabolic disorder; multiple sclerosis; and nuclear type mitochondrial complex I deficiency 6.
NQO1: Enables NADH dehydrogenase (quinone) activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell redox homeostasis; removal of superoxide radicals; and vitamin E metabolic process. Located in cytosol. Implicated in several diseases, including asthma; hematologic cancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); macular degeneration; and small cell carcinoma. Biomarker of breast cancer; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; and pulmonary emphysema.
OXSR1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 12 signaling pathway; positive regulation of T cell chemotaxis; and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytosol.
PDLIM1: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; fibroblast migration; and maintenance of cell polarity. Predicted to act upstream of or within regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in Z disc and stress fiber.
PFKP: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in canonical glycolysis; fructose 1,6-bisphosphate metabolic process; and fructose 6-phosphate metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular response to leukemia inhibitory factor. Located in cytoplasm.
PRDX1: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in natural killer cell activation. Acts upstream of or within hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblC.
PRDX2: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in defense response to tumor cell; regulation of apoptotic process; and removal of superoxide radicals. Located in extracellular exosome. Biomarker of colorectal cancer and oral squamous cell carcinoma.
PRDX4: Enables molecular adaptor activity and molecular sequestering activity. Predicted to be involved in cell redox homeostasis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of male germ cell proliferation; peptidyl-proline hydroxylation to 4-hydroxy-L-proline; and protein maturation by protein folding. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus.
PRDX6: Enables several functions, including 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferase activity; calcium-independent phospholipase A2 activity; and glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular oxidant detoxification; glycerophospholipid catabolic process; and positive regulation of mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. Located in nucleus and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
PRNP: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; cuprous ion binding activity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling using intracellular calcium source; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and protein destabilization. Acts upstream of or within cellular response to copper ion. Located in several cellular components, including membrane raft; mitochondrial outer membrane; and nuclear membrane. Colocalizes with dendrite. Implicated in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease; Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome; Huntington's disease-like 1; fatal familial insomnia; and kuru.
PTPA: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein phosphatase 2A binding activity. Contributes to phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. Involved in negative regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and positive regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Part of ATPase complex; calcium channel complex; and protein phosphatase type 2A complex.
SBNO2: Predicted to enable chromatin DNA binding activity and histone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interleukin-6; macrophage activation involved in immune response; and negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
SCAF4: Enables RNA binding activity and RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain phosphoserine binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of termination of RNA polymerase II transcription, poly(A)-coupled. Located in nucleoplasm.
SELENOS: Enables ATPase binding activity; antioxidant activity; and ubiquitin-specific protease binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ERAD pathway; cell redox homeostasis; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytoplasmic microtubule and endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Part of endoplasmic reticulum membrane; low-density lipoprotein particle; and very-low-density lipoprotein particle. Biomarker of colorectal adenoma and colorectal carcinoma.
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxide dismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negative regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation. Located in several cellular components, including dendrite cytoplasm; neuronal cell body; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including Down syndrome; artery disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); glucose metabolism disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including Behcet's disease; artery disease (multiple); cutaneous leishmaniasis; eye disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).
SOD2: Enables identical protein binding activity; manganese ion binding activity; and superoxide dismutase activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular oxygen homeostasis; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in mitochondrial matrix. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); lipid storage disease (multiple); liver disease (multiple); and optic nerve disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including exfoliation syndrome; hematologic cancer (multiple); liver disease (multiple); psoriasis; and urticaria.
SRXN1: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors. Involved in response to oxidative stress. Located in cytosol.
STK25: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi reassembly; establishment of Golgi localization; and intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to hydrogen peroxide. Located in cytoplasm. Colocalizes with Golgi apparatus.
TXN: Enables protein homodimerization activity and protein-disulfide reductase (NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cell redox homeostasis; negative regulation of hydrogen peroxide-induced cell death; and positive regulation of protein modification process. Located in cytosol; extracellular region; and nucleoplasm. Biomarker of dilated cardiomyopathy; intermediate coronary syndrome; myocardial infarction; and myocarditis.
TXNRD1: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; NADPH peroxidase activity; and thioredoxin-disulfide reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in cell redox homeostasis. Predicted to act upstream of or within cell population proliferation and mesoderm formation. Located in fibrillar center and nucleoplasm. Implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
TXNRD2: Predicted to enable protein homodimerization activity and thioredoxin-disulfide reductase activity. Involved in cell redox homeostasis. Located in cytosol and mitochondrion. Implicated in familial glucocorticoid deficiency.
////
ACVR1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; activin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributes to activin receptor activity, type I. Involved in several processes, including heart development; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in plasma membrane. Part of activin receptor complex. Implicated in fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva. Biomarker of pancreatic cancer.
APC: Enables several functions, including beta-catenin binding activity; dynein complex binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including insulin receptor signaling pathway; negative regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulation of protein localization to centrosome. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulation of protein catabolic process; positive regulation of pseudopodium assembly; and regulation of cell cycle process. Located in several cellular components, including bicellular tight junction; lateral plasma membrane; and ruffle membrane. Part of beta-catenin destruction complex and catenin complex. Colocalizes with adherens junction; microtubule; and plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); familial adenomatous polyposis 1; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hereditary desmoid disease; and reproductive organ cancer (multiple). Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and endometrial cancer.
ARID4B: Predicted to enable transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including establishment of Sertoli cell barrier; peptidyl-lysine trimethylation; and regulation of gene expression. Located in cytosol; mitochondrion; and nucleoplasm.
BCAR3: Enables kinase binding activity and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in several processes, including endothelin receptor signaling pathway; insulin receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Predicted to be located in focal adhesion and membrane.
BMP2: Enables several functions, including BMP receptor binding activity; co-receptor binding activity; and phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulation of phosphate metabolic process; regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in cell surface; extracellular space; and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of BMP receptor complex. Implicated in bone disease (multiple); hemochromatosis type 1; otosclerosis; prostate cancer; and tooth agenesis. Biomarker of prostate cancer and prostate carcinoma.
BMPR1A: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; SMAD binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of osteoblast differentiation; positive regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and positive regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation. Located in external side of plasma membrane. Colocalizes with caveola. Implicated in hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome 2; intestinal disease; and juvenile polyposis syndrome. Biomarker of pulmonary hypertension.
BMPR2: Enables BMP binding activity; cadherin binding activity; and protein tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and regulation of blood pressure. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of SMAD protein signal transduction. Located in adherens junction; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with caveola. Implicated in heart septal defect; primary pulmonary hypertension; pulmonary hypertension; and pulmonary venoocclusive disease. Biomarker of asthma and pulmonary hypertension.
CDH1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activating protein binding activity; ankyrin binding activity; and beta-catenin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to indole-3-methanol; cellular response to lithium ion; and positive regulation of protein import into nucleus. Located in several cellular components, including adherens junction; lateral plasma membrane; and trans-Golgi network. Part of catenin complex and flotillin complex. Colocalizes with cortical actin cytoskeleton. Implicated in several diseases, including blepharocheilodontic syndrome 1; breast cancer (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; and reproductive organ cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including endocrine gland cancer (multiple); invasive lobular carcinoma; oral squamous cell carcinoma; prostate cancer; and pulmonary fibrosis.
CDK9: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; protein serine/threonine kinase activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity. Involved in several processes, including nucleic acid metabolic process; positive regulation by host of viral transcription; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within protein phosphorylation. Located in PML body and cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granule. Part of P-TEFb complex. Biomarker of congestive heart failure.
CDKN1C: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity and protein kinase inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity; positive regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome; IMAGe syndrome; and hyperinsulinism. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
CTNNB1: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; alpha-catenin binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including canonical Wnt signaling pathway; epithelial tube morphogenesis; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; euchromatin; and lateral plasma membrane. Part of several cellular components, including beta-catenin destruction complex; beta-catenin-TCF7L2 complex; and catenin complex. Implicated in several diseases, including autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 19; exudative vitreoretinopathy 7; hepatocellular carcinoma (multiple); nephroblastoma; and pilomatrixoma. Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); germ cell cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple); and urinary system cancer (multiple).
ENG: Enables several functions, including galactose binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Contributes to BMP binding activity and transforming growth factor beta binding activity. Involved in several processes, including central nervous system vasculogenesis; regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in external side of plasma membrane; extracellular space; and nuclear body. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in arteriovenous malformation; arteriovenous malformations of the brain; breast cancer; hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia; and intracranial aneurysm. Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); clear cell renal cell carcinoma; diabetic retinopathy; hematologic cancer (multiple); and secondary hyperparathyroidism.
FKBP1A: Enables several functions, including FK506 binding activity; activin binding activity; and type I transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SMAD protein complex assembly; regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in Z disc; cytosol; and membrane.
FNTA: Enables molecular adaptor activity; protein geranylgeranyltransferase activity; and tubulin binding activity. Contributes to protein farnesyltransferase activity. Involved in positive regulation of deacetylase activity; positive regulation of tubulin deacetylation; and protein prenylation. Part of CAAX-protein geranylgeranyltransferase complex; microtubule associated complex; and protein farnesyltransferase complex.
FURIN: Enables several functions, including glycosaminoglycan binding activity; nerve growth factor binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including protein processing; regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of transforming growth factor beta1 production. Acts upstream of or within protein processing. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; membrane raft; and trans-Golgi network transport vesicle. Biomarker of arteriosclerosis.
HDAC1: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and histone modifying activity. Contributes to nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including histone deacetylation; negative regulation of signal transduction; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Part of NuRD complex and Sin3 complex. Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; pancreatic ductal carcinoma; prostate carcinoma in situ; and pulmonary hypertension.
HIPK2: Enables several functions, including SMAD binding activity; transcription corepressor activity; and virion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of JNK cascade; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in cytoplasmic stress granule and nuclear body. Colocalizes with PML body.
ID1: Enables transcription regulator inhibitor activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity and negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in Golgi apparatus and nucleoplasm. Biomarker of glaucoma and primary pulmonary hypertension.
ID2: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity; negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle. Located in cytosol and nucleus. Colocalizes with cytoplasm.
ID3: Predicted to enable transcription regulator inhibitor activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity and negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
IFNGR2: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within defense response to virus. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane. Implicated in immunodeficiency 28.
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex and nucleoplasm. Part of transcription factor AP-1 complex. Implicated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and melanoma. Biomarker of gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); lung non-small cell carcinoma; and lymphoma (multiple).
KLF10: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to be located in nucleus. Predicted to be part of chromatin.
LEFTY2: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Predicted to be involved in BMP signaling pathway; SMAD protein signal transduction; and positive regulation of pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix.
LTBP2: Predicted to enable microfibril binding activity. Acts upstream of or within supramolecular fiber organization. Located in extracellular exosome. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in Weill-Marchesani syndrome.
MAP3K7: Enables several functions, including protein serine/threonine kinase activity; receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity; and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Part of ATAC complex. Colocalizes with IkappaB kinase complex. Implicated in frontometaphyseal dysplasia 2 and prostate cancer.
NCOR2: Enables Notch binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative regulation of RNA metabolic process; negative regulation of androgen receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of cellular ketone metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromatin; nuclear body; and nuclear matrix. Part of transcription repressor complex. Implicated in osteoarthritis. Biomarker of breast cancer and endometrial carcinoma.
NOG: Enables cytokine binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including embryonic morphogenesis; regionalization; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in Huntington's disease; bone disease (multiple); cleft lip; and hyperopia. Biomarker of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
PMEPA1: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and WW domain binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of SMAD protein complex assembly; negative regulation of pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation; and negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. Located in Golgi membrane and early endosome membrane. Biomarker of breast cancer; gastric adenocarcinoma; prostate cancer; rectal benign neoplasm; and renal cell carcinoma.
PPM1A: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase activity. Involved in peptidyl-threonine dephosphorylation; positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytosol; nucleus; and plasma membrane.
PPP1CA: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion. Involved in dephosphorylation and regulation of circadian rhythm. Acts upstream of or within protein dephosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including adherens junction; cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Part of PTW/PP1 phosphatase complex. Colocalizes with chromosome, telomeric region.
PPP1R15A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein phosphatase 1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum; regulation of protein dephosphorylation; and regulation of translational initiation by eIF2 alpha dephosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and mitochondrion. Part of protein phosphatase type 1 complex.
RAB31: Enables GDP binding activity and GTP binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport; cellular response to insulin stimulus; and phagosome maturation. Located in early endosome; phagocytic vesicle; and trans-Golgi network membrane. Biomarker of severe acute respiratory syndrome.
RHOA: Enables GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and myosin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; cytoskeleton organization; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including endothelial tube lumen extension; negative regulation of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; and positive regulation of stress fiber assembly. Located in several cellular components, including apical junction complex; dendritic spine; and endosome. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane. Is active in glutamatergic synapse and postsynapse. Colocalizes with cleavage furrow. Implicated in breast carcinoma. Biomarker of breast cancer; colorectal cancer; multiple sclerosis; ovarian carcinoma; and urinary bladder cancer.
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis; and response to bacterium. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix; extracellular exosome; and serine protease inhibitor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); liver disease (multiple); lung disease (multiple); and retinal vascular disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); lung disease (multiple); retinal vascular disease (multiple); and sleep apnea (multiple).
SKI: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SMAD protein signal transduction; negative regulation of osteoblast differentiation; and negative regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of Schwann cell proliferation. Located in PML body and centrosome. Part of protein-containing complex.
SKIL: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; SMAD binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of axonogenesis. Located in PML body and cytoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex.
SLC20A1: Predicted to enable inorganic phosphate transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane.
SMAD1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; SMAD binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; positive regulation of sprouting angiogenesis; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in heteromeric SMAD protein complex; homomeric SMAD protein complex; and nuclear inner membrane. Part of protein-containing complex.
SMAD3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; SMAD binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; and regulation of gene expression. Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nucleus. Part of heteromeric SMAD protein complex and receptor complex. Implicated in Loeys-Dietz syndrome 3; Lynch syndrome; and pancreatic cancer. Biomarker of cervical squamous cell carcinoma; endometrial cancer; lung non-small cell carcinoma; and prostate cancer.
SMAD6: Enables several functions, including SMAD binding activity; signaling receptor binding activity; and transcription regulator inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of osteoblast differentiation; negative regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and zygotic specification of dorsal/ventral axis. Located in Golgi apparatus; cytosol; and nuclear body. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in aortic valve disease 2; craniosynostosis; and radioulnar synostosis. Biomarker of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
SMAD7: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; activin binding activity; and beta-catenin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of DNA-templated transcription; regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; cytosol; and nuclear lumen. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with adherens junction. Implicated in colorectal cancer and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Biomarker of endometrial cancer; hepatocellular carcinoma; liver cirrhosis; and pancreatic cancer.
SMURF1: Enables I-SMAD binding activity; R-SMAD binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including autophagosome assembly; negative regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with mitochondrion.
SMURF2: Enables SMAD binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of trophoblast cell migration; and ubiquitin-dependent SMAD protein catabolic process. Located in nuclear speck. Part of ubiquitin ligase complex.
SPTBN1: Enables GTPase binding activity and ankyrin binding activity. A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport; central nervous system formation; and positive regulation of interleukin-2 production. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and plasma membrane.
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial to mesenchymal transition; negative regulation of gene expression; and positive regulation of isotype switching to IgA isotypes. Located in several cellular components, including cell surface; transforming growth factor beta complex; and transforming growth factor beta ligand-receptor complex. Colocalizes with microvillus. Implicated in several diseases, including Behcet's disease; artery disease (multiple); bone disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); and lung disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); and pancreatic cancer (multiple).
TGFBR1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; I-SMAD binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor activity, type I. Contributes to transforming growth factor beta binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; positive regulation of signal transduction; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including bicellular tight junction; membrane raft; and transforming growth factor beta ligand-receptor complex. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in Loeys-Dietz syndrome 1; Lynch syndrome; carcinoma (multiple); colorectal cancer; and urinary bladder cancer.
TGIF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in holoprosencephaly and holoprosencephaly 4.
THBS1: Enables several functions, including collagen V binding activity; fibrinogen binding activity; and fibroblast growth factor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cell migration; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of endothelial cell chemotaxis; negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and negative regulation of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including external side of plasma membrane; extracellular space; and platelet alpha granule. Part of fibrinogen complex. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in cholangiocarcinoma; pancreatic cancer; and pancreatic ductal carcinoma. Biomarker of COVID-19; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); obesity; pancreatic cancer (multiple); and urinary bladder cancer.
TJP1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including establishment of endothelial intestinal barrier; negative regulation of actin cytoskeleton reorganization; and protein localization to cell-cell junction. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of apoptotic process and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including apical part of cell; basolateral plasma membrane; and bicellular tight junction. Part of protein-containing complex. Biomarker of bile duct cancer and gallbladder carcinoma.
TRIM33: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and co-SMAD binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of BMP signaling pathway; protein ubiquitination; and regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. Located in nucleus.
UBE2D3: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and protein ubiquitination. Located in extracellular exosome.
WWTR1: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including hippo signaling; positive regulation of cell differentiation; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytosol and nuclear body.
XIAP: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; positive regulation of protein linear polyubiquitination; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome 2 and prostate cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer (multiple); cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; colorectal cancer; prostate cancer; and renal cell carcinoma.
////
ANKLE1: Enables endonuclease activity. Involved in protein export from nucleus. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Colocalizes with nucleus.
BCL2L11: Contributes to microtubule binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and positive regulation of cellular component organization. Acts upstream of or within intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage. Located in Bcl-2 family protein complex and cytosol. Part of BIM-BCL-2 complex and BIM-BCL-xl complex. Colocalizes with microtubule.
BRIP1: Enables 5'-3' DNA helicase activity. Acts upstream of or within regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group J; breast cancer; colorectal cancer; and thrombocytopenia. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; Down syndrome; breast carcinoma; cervical squamous cell carcinoma; and colorectal cancer.
CCNB1IP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in chiasma assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or within blastocyst formation and spermatid development. Predicted to be located in condensed nuclear chromosome. Predicted to colocalize with synaptonemal complex.
CENPC: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in chromosome segregation; kinetochore assembly; and mitotic cell cycle. Located in chromosome, centromeric region; midbody; and nuclear body. Implicated in CREST syndrome and liver cirrhosis.
CENPS: Enables DNA binding activity and chromatin binding activity. Contributes to double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in interstrand cross-link repair; replication fork processing; and resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Located in chromatin. Part of FANCM-MHF complex and Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex.
CENPX: Enables DNA binding activity. Contributes to double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in interstrand cross-link repair; replication fork processing; and resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Located in chromatin. Part of FANCM-MHF complex and Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex.
CNTD1: Predicted to be involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination and regulation of meiotic cell cycle. Predicted to act upstream of or within spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in site of double-strand break.
DMC1: Enables ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA and identical protein binding activity. Involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination. Located in nucleus.
EME1: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair and replication fork processing. Acts upstream of or within response to intra-S DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in endodeoxyribonuclease complex.
EME2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and endonuclease activity. Involved in double-strand break repair and replication fork processing. Located in endodeoxyribonuclease complex.
ERCC4: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to 3' overhang single-stranded DNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity and DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of double-stranded telomeric DNA binding activity; and negative regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-excision repair. Located in chromosome, telomeric region and nucleus. Part of ERCC4-ERCC1 complex and nucleotide-excision repair factor 1 complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group Q; XFE progeroid syndrome; pancreatic cancer; polyneuropathy due to drug; and xeroderma pigmentosum (multiple). Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
FANCD2: Enables DNA polymerase binding activity. Involved in response to gamma radiation. Located in DNA repair complex; cytosol; and nuclear lumen. Implicated in Fanconi anemia; Fanconi anemia complementation group D2; and breast cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer and skin melanoma.
HFM1: Predicted to enable DNA helicase activity. Predicted to be involved in resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Predicted to be active in nucleus. Implicated in primary ovarian insufficiency 9.
IHO1: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including meiosis I cell cycle process; regulation of homologous chromosome segregation; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in condensed nuclear chromosome.
KASH5: Predicted to enable dynein complex binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; homologous chromosome segregation; and spindle localization. Predicted to act upstream of or within double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; oogenesis; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome; membrane; and nucleus. Predicted to be part of meiotic nuclear membrane microtubule tethering complex. Predicted to be active in chromosome; meiotic spindle pole; and nuclear outer membrane.
MAJIN: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region. Predicted to be active in nuclear inner membrane.
MEI1: Predicted to be involved in meiosis I. Predicted to act upstream of or within germ cell development; meiotic nuclear division; and meiotic spindle organization. Implicated in gestational trophoblastic neoplasm.
MEI4: Predicted to be involved in meiosis I cell cycle process; oogenesis; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in lateral element.
MEIKIN: Predicted to be involved in meiotic chromosome segregation and meiotic sister chromatid cohesion. Predicted to be located in kinetochore.
MEIOB: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity; single-stranded DNA 3'-5' DNA exonuclease activity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; fertilization; and meiotic nuclear division. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 22.
MEIOC: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including germ cell development; germline cell cycle switching, mitotic to meiotic cell cycle; and meiosis I. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm and nucleus.
MND1: Predicted to enable double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and reciprocal meiotic recombination. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
MSH4: Predicted to enable ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA and double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in meiotic mismatch repair and resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis; ovarian follicle development; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in synaptonemal complex. Implicated in primary ovarian insufficiency and spermatogenic failure 2.
MSH5: Predicted to enable ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA and double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in chiasma assembly and meiotic mismatch repair. Predicted to act upstream of or within female gamete generation and homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis. Predicted to be located in synaptonemal complex. Predicted to be active in nuclear chromosome. Implicated in lung non-small cell carcinoma; primary ovarian insufficiency 13; and spermatogenic failure.
MUS81: Enables 3'-flap endonuclease activity. Involved in double-strand break repair; osteoblast proliferation; and replication fork processing. Acts upstream of or within response to intra-S DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in endodeoxyribonuclease complex.
PSMC3IP: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and reciprocal meiotic recombination. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in ovarian dysgenesis 3.
PTTG1: Enables molecular function activator activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome segregation and negative regulation of mitotic sister chromatid separation. Predicted to act upstream of or within chromosome segregation and mitotic sister chromatid cohesion. Located in cytosol and nucleus.
PTTG2: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome segregation and negative regulation of mitotic sister chromatid separation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
PTTG3P: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome segregation and negative regulation of mitotic sister chromatid separation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
RAD51: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; DNA binding activity; and catalytic activity, acting on DNA. Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; cellular response to camptothecin; and regulation of DNA metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within double-strand break repair via homologous recombination. Located in several cellular components, including chromosome; nucleus; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group R; breast cancer; congenital mirror movement disorder; and ovarian cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer.
RAD51C: Contributes to crossover junction DNA endonuclease activity and four-way junction DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination and positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle. Located in several cellular components, including nucleoplasm; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and replication fork. Part of Rad51B-Rad51C-Rad51D-XRCC2 complex and Rad51C-XRCC3 complex. Colocalizes with Holliday junction resolvase complex. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group O and hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome.
RAD51D: Enables ATP-dependent DNA damage sensor activity; gamma-tubulin binding activity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to four-way junction DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; strand invasion; and telomere maintenance via recombination. Located in centrosome; chromosome, telomeric region; and replication fork. Part of Rad51B-Rad51C-Rad51D-XRCC2 complex. Implicated in hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome.
RAD54B: Enables DNA translocase activity and identical protein binding activity. Acts upstream of or within double-strand break repair via homologous recombination. Located in nucleoplasm. Implicated in colorectal cancer and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
RAD54L: Enables ATP-dependent DNA/DNA annealing activity. Predicted to be involved in double-strand break repair via synthesis-dependent strand annealing and reciprocal meiotic recombination. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including determination of adult lifespan; double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; and response to ionizing radiation. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in breast cancer; disease of cellular proliferation; non-Hodgkin lymphoma; and pancreatic cancer.
RMI1: Predicted to enable nucleotide binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination and resolution of recombination intermediates. Located in RecQ family helicase-topoisomerase III complex and nuclear body.
RNF212: Predicted to enable SUMO transferase activity. Predicted to be involved in chiasma assembly; meiotic gene conversion; and protein sumoylation. Predicted to be located in chromosome and nucleus. Predicted to be active in synaptonemal complex. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 62.
RNF212B: Predicted to enable SUMO transferase activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and protein sumoylation. Predicted to be active in synaptonemal complex.
SHOC1: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in condensed nuclear chromosome.
SLX4: Enables enzyme activator activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process and regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream of or within response to intra-S DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in cell junction; cytosol; and nucleoplasm. Part of Slx1-Slx4 complex. Colocalizes with ERCC4-ERCC1 complex; Holliday junction resolvase complex; and chromosome. Implicated in Fanconi anemia complementation group P.
SPO11: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in meiotic DNA double-strand break formation; meiotic DNA double-strand break processing; and reciprocal meiotic recombination. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including germ cell development; meiosis I; and ovarian follicle development. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region and nucleus. Predicted to be active in nuclear chromosome.
SYCE3: Predicted to be involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination; spermatogenesis; and synaptonemal complex assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation of apoptotic process; positive regulation of developmental process; and positive regulation of reproductive process. Predicted to be located in chromosome and nucleus. Predicted to be active in central element.
SYCP1: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in protein homotetramerization. Predicted to be located in synaptonemal complex. Predicted to be active in central element; male germ cell nucleus; and transverse filament.
TERB1: Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region and nuclear inner membrane. Predicted to colocalize with shelterin complex. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 60.
TERB2: Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region. Predicted to be active in nuclear inner membrane. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 59.
TEX11: Predicted to be involved in meiotic gene conversion and meiotic nuclear division. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including male gonad development; meiotic nuclear division; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in central element. Predicted to colocalize with synaptonemal complex. Implicated in X-linked spermatogenic failure 2.
TEX12: Predicted to be involved in synaptonemal complex assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or within meiotic DNA repair synthesis. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in central element.
TEX15: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including DNA methylation; meiotic nuclear division; and regulation of double-strand break repair via homologous recombination. Predicted to act upstream of or within with a positive effect on DNA methylation-dependent heterochromatin formation. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including homeostasis of number of cells within a tissue; homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis; and male genitalia development. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 25.
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation; and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA replication via double stranded DNA intermediate. Located in cytoplasm; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of DNA topoisomerase type II (double strand cut, ATP-hydrolyzing) complex and ribonucleoprotein complex. Colocalizes with centriole and nuclear chromosome. Biomarker of cervix uteri carcinoma in situ; ductal carcinoma in situ; penile benign neoplasm; prostate cancer; and urinary system cancer (multiple).
TOP2B: Enables several functions, including DNA topoisomerase type II (double strand cut, ATP-hydrolyzing) activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in B cell differentiation; DNA topological change; and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA replication via double stranded DNA intermediate. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Colocalizes with heterochromatin.
TRIP13: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint signaling. Predicted to be located in male germ cell nucleus. Predicted to be active in chromosome and nucleus. Implicated in mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome 3.
////
ABL1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; regulation of cytoskeleton organization; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of phospholipase C activity; negative regulation of ubiquitin-protein transferase activity; and positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Located in cytosol; nuclear lumen; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple) and leukemia (multiple). Biomarker of Parkinson's disease; colorectal cancer; lung non-small cell carcinoma; and stomach cancer.
ARMC5: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including T cell activation; adrenal cortex development; and defense response to virus. Located in cytosol; focal adhesion; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 2.
BAX: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; channel activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including apoptotic signaling pathway; mitochondrion organization; and positive regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum membrane; mitochondrial outer membrane; and nuclear envelope. Part of BAK complex; BAX complex; and mitochondrial permeability transition pore complex. Colocalizes with cell periphery. Implicated in acute lymphoblastic leukemia; ataxia telangiectasia; colon adenocarcinoma; and colorectal cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); osteoarthritis; prostate cancer (multiple); stomach cancer; and teratoma.
BTN3A1: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; activated T cell proliferation; and positive regulation of type II interferon production. Located in plasma membrane.
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell recognition; positive regulation of cytokine production; and susceptibility to natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in breast carcinoma and prostate cancer. Biomarker of cervix uteri carcinoma in situ.
CARD11: Enables CARD domain binding activity and protein self-association. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of signal transduction; and regulation of gene expression. Located in cytoplasm; membrane raft; and plasma membrane. Part of CBM complex. Implicated in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma; immunodeficiency 11A; and immunodeficiency 11B. Biomarker of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
CBLB: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity; receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of epidermal growth factor-activated receptor activity; regulation of platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha signaling pathway; and signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell proliferation; positive regulation of T cell anergy; and positive regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Implicated in lung non-small cell carcinoma; stomach carcinoma; and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of lung squamous cell carcinoma and stomach carcinoma.
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclin D3-CDK4 complex and nucleoplasm. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Biomarker of invasive ductal carcinoma; multiple myeloma; reproductive organ cancer (multiple); and urinary system cancer (multiple).
CD151: Enables integrin binding activity. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of endocytosis; and wound healing, spreading of cells. Located in cell surface. Part of basement membrane. Implicated in epidermolysis bullosa simplex.
CD28: Enables protease binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cytokine production; positive regulation of mitotic nuclear division; and regulatory T cell differentiation. Located in external side of plasma membrane. Part of protein complex involved in cell adhesion. Implicated in multiple sclerosis and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); chronic fatigue syndrome; diabetic angiopathy; lung disease (multiple); and respiratory syncytial virus infectious disease.
CD3E: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of gene expression; positive regulation of T cell proliferation; and positive regulation of gene expression. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and external side of plasma membrane. Part of alpha-beta T cell receptor complex. Implicated in immunodeficiency 18. Biomarker of severe acute respiratory syndrome.
CLEC4G: Enables several functions, including monosaccharide binding activity; virus coreceptor activity; and virus receptor activity. Involved in positive regulation of viral life cycle and viral entry into host cell. Located in plasma membrane.
CORO1A: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including natural killer cell degranulation; negative regulation of actin nucleation; and phagolysosome assembly. Located in several cellular components, including actin filament; immunological synapse; and phagocytic cup. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with cortical actin cytoskeleton. Implicated in coronin-1A deficiency.
CRTAM: Enables identical protein binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell recognition; detection of tumor cell; and positive regulation of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity directed against tumor cell target. Located in plasma membrane.
CTPS1: Enables CTP synthase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in B cell proliferation; CTP biosynthetic process; and T cell proliferation. Located in cytoophidium. Implicated in immunodeficiency 24. Biomarker of biliary tract benign neoplasm.
DLG1: Enables several functions, including L27 domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; negative regulation of MAPK cascade; and regulation of protein localization. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; bicellular tight junction; and immunological synapse. Part of MPP7-DLG1-LIN7 complex. Implicated in invasive ductal carcinoma. Biomarker of cervix uteri carcinoma in situ.
DOCK2: Enables T cell receptor binding activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including macropinocytosis; myeloid dendritic cell activation involved in immune response; and myoblast fusion. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including T cell activation; immunological synapse formation; and membrane raft polarization. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane. Implicated in immunodeficiency 40.
DOCK8: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of GTPase activity; positive regulation of T cell migration; and positive regulation of establishment of T cell polarity. Acts upstream of or within memory T cell proliferation. Located in cytoplasm and leading edge membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including atopic dermatitis; autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 2; hyper IgE recurrent infection syndrome 2; immune dysregulation-polyendocrinopathy-enteropathy-X-linked syndrome; and viral infectious disease (multiple).
EBI3: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in leptin-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen; extracellular space; and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of receptor complex. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
EFNB1: Predicted to enable ephrin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in axon guidance; ephrin receptor signaling pathway; and presynapse assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or within embryonic pattern specification; neural crest cell migration; and positive regulation of T cell activation. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in craniofrontonasal syndrome and dysostosis. Biomarker of stomach cancer.
ELF4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cytokine production; negative regulation of inflammatory response; and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in PML body.
ERBB2: Enables several functions, including ErbB-3 class receptor binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes to growth factor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; protein phosphorylation; and regulation of MAPK cascade. Acts upstream of or within cell surface receptor signaling pathway. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; cytosol; and endosome membrane. Part of ERBB3:ERBB2 complex. Implicated in carcinoma (multiple); high grade glioma; reproductive organ cancer (multiple); stomach cancer; and urinary bladder cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); ductal carcinoma in situ; invasive lobular carcinoma; pre-eclampsia (multiple); and urinary system cancer (multiple).
FKBP1B: Enables several functions, including FK506 binding activity; calcium channel inhibitor activity; and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity; protein peptidyl-prolyl isomerization; and regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. Located in Z disc and membrane. Part of calcium channel complex. Implicated in Graves' disease.
FOXP3: Enables several functions, including NFAT protein binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of T cell activation; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of histone modification. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Implicated in Human papillomavirus infectious disease; colorectal cancer; immune dysregulation-polyendocrinopathy-enteropathy-X-linked syndrome; pulmonary tuberculosis; and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of several diseases, including adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; anogenital venereal wart; chlamydia; liver disease (multiple); and tuberculosis (multiple).
FYN: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific binding activity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cell receptor signaling pathway; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. Located in cytosol; endosome; and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane raft. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
GPAM: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Involved in phosphatidylglycerol biosynthetic process and triglyceride biosynthetic process. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial outer membrane. Predicted to be active in mitochondrial membrane.
HES1: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell differentiation; negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and neuronal stem cell population maintenance. Located in nucleoplasm.
IDO1: Enables indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase activity. Involved in positive regulation of T cell apoptotic process. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm. Biomarker of several diseases, including acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; chlamydia; eczema herpeticum; pulmonary tuberculosis; and toxic shock syndrome.
IL12B: Enables identical protein binding activity; interleukin-12 alpha subunit binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes to cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and interleukin-23 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of immune response; positive regulation of lymphocyte proliferation; and regulation of cytokine production. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of protein secretion. Located in extracellular space. Part of interleukin-12 complex and interleukin-23 complex. Implicated in asthma; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; immunodeficiency 29; and salmonellosis. Biomarker of anogenital venereal wart.
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cytosol and nuclear speck. Implicated in aspergillosis; asthma; pleurisy; and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); brain infarction; lung disease (multiple); obesity; and viral infectious disease (multiple).
IL2: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-2 receptor binding activity. Involved in leukocyte activation involved in immune response; positive regulation of interleukin-17 production; and positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of B cell apoptotic process; positive regulation of B cell proliferation; and positive regulation of activated T cell proliferation. Predicted to be located in extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases, including Takayasu's arteritis; auditory system disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including Zellweger syndrome; aggressive periodontitis; anogenital venereal wart; autoimmune disease (multiple); and uveitis (multiple).
IL20RB: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity and interleukin-20 binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulation of T cell proliferation; negative regulation of type IV hypersensitivity; and regulation of cytokine production. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane.
IL23A: Contributes to interleukin-23 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cytokine production; positive regulation of lymphocyte proliferation; and positive regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. Part of interleukin-23 complex.
IL2RA: Contributes to interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in regulation of T cell tolerance induction. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of interleukin-2 receptor complex. Implicated in immunodeficiency 41; lymphopenia; multiple sclerosis; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 1 diabetes mellitus 10. Biomarker of COVID-19; Hantavirus hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome; and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
ITCH: Enables several functions, including CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity; arrestin family protein binding activity; and ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of receptor catabolic process; proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; and protein ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with early endosome.
KITLG: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and stem cell factor receptor binding activity. Involved in embryonic hemopoiesis; male gonad development; and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including filopodium; lamellipodium; and plasma membrane. Implicated in Waardenburg's syndrome; autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness 69; and familial progressive hyperpigmentation with or without hypopigmentation.
LILRB1: Enables several functions, including MHC protein binding activity; SH2 domain binding activity; and immune receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity; regulation of T cell activation; and regulation of cytokine production. Located in cytoplasm and external side of plasma membrane.
LIPA: Enables sterol esterase activity. Predicted to be involved in sterol metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including homeostasis of number of cells within a tissue; lung development; and macrophage homeostasis. Located in cytosol; fibrillar center; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in Wolman disease; cholesterol ester storage disease; and lysosomal acid lipase deficiency.
LMBR1L: Enables transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis and signal transduction. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane and plasma membrane.
MALT1: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; protein self-association; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Contributes to kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including T cell receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytosol and fibrillar center. Part of CBM complex. Implicated in immunodeficiency 12; lymphoma; and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
MSN: Enables several functions, including cell adhesion molecule binding activity; double-stranded RNA binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to testosterone stimulus; epithelial cell differentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; microvillus; and pseudopodium. Colocalizes with focal adhesion. Implicated in immunodeficiency 50.
NCSTN: Enables ATPase binding activity; growth factor receptor binding activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including Notch receptor processing; amyloid-beta formation; and proteolysis. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; hidradenitis suppurativa; and schizophrenia.
NDFIP1: Predicted to enable WW domain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular iron ion homeostasis; negative regulation of transport; and positive regulation of protein ubiquitination. Located in perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
P2RX7: Enables extracellularly ATP-gated monoatomic cation channel activity and purinergic nucleotide receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including bleb assembly; negative regulation of cell volume; and positive regulation of bleb assembly. Located in plasma membrane.
PDE5A: Enables 3',5'-cyclic-GMP phosphodiesterase activity. Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including cGMP catabolic process; negative regulation of T cell proliferation; and positive regulation of oocyte development. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Implicated in IgA glomerulonephritis.
PELI1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of necroptotic process; protein polyubiquitination; and response to lipopolysaccharide. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Implicated in colorectal cancer.
PIK3CG: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity; and protein serine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within phosphorylation. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Part of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex, class IB. Implicated in autistic disorder; primary immunodeficiency disease; and swine influenza. Biomarker of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
PPP3CB: Enables several functions, including calmodulin binding activity; calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase activity; and protein phosphatase 2B binding activity. Involved in calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and protein dephosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm. Part of calcineurin complex. Implicated in aortic valve stenosis. Biomarker of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and schizophrenia.
PRDX2: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in defense response to tumor cell; regulation of apoptotic process; and removal of superoxide radicals. Located in extracellular exosome. Biomarker of colorectal cancer and oral squamous cell carcinoma.
PRKCQ: Enables protein kinase C activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of insulin receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of DNA metabolic process; and positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity. Located in aggresome and centriolar satellite.
PSMB10: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in proteasomal protein catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within T cell proliferation and cell morphogenesis. Predicted to be located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Predicted to be part of proteasome core complex, beta-subunit complex and spermatoproteasome complex. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
PTPN6: Enables several functions, including phosphorylation-dependent protein binding activity; phosphotyrosine residue binding activity; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation; protein modification process; and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Located in cytoplasm; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Biomarker of anogenital venereal wart and cervical cancer.
PTPRC: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; protein kinase binding activity; and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in bleb and external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in multiple sclerosis; primary immunodeficiency disease; and severe combined immunodeficiency.
RASGRP1: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; diacylglycerol binding activity; and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in several processes, including lymphocyte proliferation; positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Part of Golgi apparatus. Implicated in immunodeficiency 64.
RC3H1: Enables CCR4-NOT complex binding activity; RNA binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process; protein polyubiquitination; and regulation of nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process, deadenylation-dependent decay. Located in P-body.
RC3H2: Enables nucleic acid binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in protein polyubiquitination. Located in cell surface; intracellular membrane-bounded organelle; and membrane.
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to muramyl dipeptide; positive regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of gene expression. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling and toll-like receptor 2 signaling pathway. Located in cytoskeleton; cytosol; and vesicle. Part of protein-containing complex.
RPS6: Enables protein kinase binding activity. A structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in several processes, including TOR signaling; cytoplasmic translation; and ribosome biogenesis. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granule; cytosolic ribosome; and nucleolus. Part of cytosolic small ribosomal subunit.
SASH3: Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of B cell proliferation; positive regulation of adaptive immune response; and positive regulation of immunoglobulin production. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulation of T cell activation; positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of organ growth. Predicted to be located in cellular anatomical entity. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in primary immunodeficiency disease.
SCGB1A1: Predicted to enable phospholipase A2 inhibitor activity and polychlorinated biphenyl binding activity. Predicted to be involved in embryo implantation. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of T cell proliferation; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of inflammatory response. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in IgA glomerulonephritis; asthma; and glomerulonephritis. Biomarker of asthma; lung disease (multiple); and pulmonary eosinophilia.
SELENOK: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; protein palmitoylation; and response to oxidative stress. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
SH2D2A: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within T cell proliferation. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Implicated in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.
SHH: Enables calcium ion binding activity; patched binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hemopoiesis; positive regulation of sclerotome development; and positive regulation of smoothened signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within epithelial-mesenchymal signaling involved in prostate gland development. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases, including Hirschsprung's disease; holoprosencephaly (multiple); hypoplastic or aplastic tibia with polydactyly; middle cerebral artery infarction; and polydactyly. Biomarker of several diseases, including autism spectrum disorder; biliary atresia; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); glomerulonephritis (multiple); and multiple sclerosis (multiple).
SLC11A1: Enables metal cation:proton antiporter activity; protein homodimerization activity; and transition metal ion transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in intracellular iron ion homeostasis; response to bacterium; and transition metal ion transport. Located in phagocytic vesicle membrane; plasma membrane; and tertiary granule membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including Buruli ulcer disease; autoimmune disease (multiple); inflammatory bowel disease (multiple); leishmaniasis (multiple); and tuberculosis (multiple).
STAT5B: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; nuclear glucocorticoid receptor binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in growth hormone receptor signaling pathway via JAK-STAT; positive regulation of erythrocyte differentiation; and response to estradiol. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in colon adenocarcinoma; colorectal adenocarcinoma; growth hormone insensitivity syndrome with immune dysregulation 1; and growth hormone insensitivity syndrome with immune dysregulation 2. Biomarker of colorectal adenocarcinoma; gastric adenocarcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; and lung non-small cell carcinoma.
TNFRSF4: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of apoptotic process; positive regulation of B cell proliferation; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including cellular defense response; negative regulation of cytokine production; and regulation of protein kinase activity. Predicted to be located in cell surface. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in immunodeficiency 16. Biomarker of cervical squamous cell carcinoma.
TNFSF13B: Predicted to enable receptor ligand activity. Involved in positive regulation of B cell proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including focal adhesion; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and plasma membrane.
TNFSF14: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in T cell costimulation; cellular response to mechanical stimulus; and positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane.
TNFSF18: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cell adhesion; positive regulation of leukocyte migration; and positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in cell surface.
TP53: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulation of cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including ER overload response; cellular response to glucose starvation; and intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage by p53 class mediator. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nuclear lumen; and transcription repressor complex. Part of transcription regulator complex. Colocalizes with nuclear body. Implicated in several diseases, including Li-Fraumeni syndrome (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); and open-angle glaucoma (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); oral mucosa leukoplakia; oral submucous fibrosis; and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
TSPAN32: Predicted to be involved in protein localization to plasma membrane and protein maturation. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including defense response to protozoan; integrin-mediated signaling pathway; and negative regulation of leukocyte activation. Predicted to be located in cell surface and membrane. Predicted to be part of integrin alphaIIb-beta3 complex. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane.
WNT4: Enables receptor ligand activity. Involved in several processes, including Wnt signaling pathway; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of steroid biosynthetic process. Located in cytoplasm and extracellular space. Implicated in Mullerian aplasia and hyperandrogenism. Biomarker of endometrial carcinoma.
////
ABCA2: Enables ATP binding activity; ceramide floppase activity; and endopeptidaseregulator activity. Involved in several processes, including ceramide translocation;cholesterol homeostasis; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process.Acts upstream of with a positive effect on sphingosine biosynthetic process.Located in endosome membrane and lysosomal membrane. Is active in plasma membrane.
ACAT2: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involvedin fatty acid beta-oxidation and positive regulation of intestinal cholesterolabsorption. Located in cytoplasm. Implicated in coronary artery disease.
ACSS2: Enables acetate-CoA ligase activity. Involved in lipid biosyntheticprocess. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Implicated in orofacial cleft.Biomarker of lymphangioleiomyomatosis and morbid obesity.
ACTG1: Enables identical protein binding activity; profilin binding activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including protein localization to bicellular tight junction; regulation ofstress fiber assembly; and regulation of transepithelial transport. Acts upstreamof or within with a positive effect on angiogenesis. Located in actin filament;apical junction complex; and extracellular exosome. Implicated in Baraitser-Wintersyndrome 2 and autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness 20.
ADH4: Enables several functions, including oxidoreductase activity, actingon the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; retinoid binding activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cellular aldehyde metabolic process;fatty acid omega-oxidation; and primary alcohol metabolic process. Locatedin cytosol and nucleoplasm.
ALCAM: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in heterophiliccell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules. Located inimmunological synapse. Colocalizes with T cell receptor complex.
ALDOC: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity. Involved in epithelial cell differentiation and fructose1,6-bisphosphate metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicatedin autoimmune disease of the nervous system.
ANTXR2: Predicted to enable transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in toxin transport. Predicted to act upstream of or withinreproductive process. Predicted to be located in external side of plasma membrane.Predicted to be active in cell surface and plasma membrane. Implicated infibroma and hyaline fibromatosis syndrome.
ANXA13: Enables calcium ion binding activity and phospholipid binding activity.Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of Golgi to plasma membraneprotein transport and positive regulation of Golgi to plasma membrane proteintransport. Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane. Is extrinsic componentof membrane.
ANXA5: Enables calcium-dependent phospholipid binding activity. Predictedto be involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process and signal transduction.Predicted to act upstream of or within response to organic substance. Locatedin extracellular exosome; focal adhesion; and membrane. Colocalizes with collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Implicated in autoimmune disease of the nervous system;myocardial infarction; and systemic scleroderma. Biomarker of several diseases,including Kuhnt-Junius degeneration; Lewy body dementia; nephrotic syndrometype 2; neurodegenerative disease (multiple); and pancreatic ductal carcinoma.
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; positive regulation of TRAIL-activatedapoptotic signaling pathway; and positive regulation of transcription fromRNA polymerase II promoter in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Locatedin RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm.Part of CHOP-ATF3 complex. Biomarker of prostate cancer and pulmonary tuberculosis.
ATF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatoryregion sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and tubulin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including fat cell differentiation; regulationof DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of cell cycle process. Locatedin centrosome; cytosol; and nucleus.
ATXN2: Enables epidermal growth factor receptor binding activity. Involvedin P-body assembly; negative regulation of receptor internalization; and stressgranule assembly. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmicstress granule; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and trans-Golgi network.Part of polysome. Implicated in late onset Parkinson''s disease and spinocerebellarataxia type 2.
AVPR1A: Enables vasopressin receptor activity. Involved in positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in endocytic vesicle; endosome;and plasma membrane. Implicated in hypertension. Biomarker of portal hypertension.
CBS: Enables several functions, including S-adenosyl-L-methionine bindingactivity; cystathionine beta-synthase activity; and heme binding activity.Involved in DNA protection; alpha-amino acid metabolic process; and hydrogensulfide biosynthetic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicatedin coronary artery disease; homocystinuria; hyperhomocysteinemia; malaria;and neural tube defect.
CD9: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingfusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization; glialcell migration; and negative regulation of platelet aggregation. Located inextracellular exosome. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in prostateadenocarcinoma. Biomarker of breast carcinoma; female reproductive organ cancer(multiple); severe acute respiratory syndrome; transitional cell carcinoma;and urinary bladder cancer.
CHKA: Enables phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in cellular response to glucose starvation;phosphatidylcholine biosynthetic process; and phosphatidylethanolamine biosyntheticprocess. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on lipid droplet disassembly.Part of lipid droplet. Is active in cytosol. Biomarker of colon adenoma.
CLU: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and misfolded protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcellular component organization; regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in several cellularcomponents, including apical dendrite; neurofibrillary tangle; and perinuclearendoplasmic reticulum lumen. Part of spherical high-density lipoprotein particle.Colocalizes with cell periphery; cytoskeleton; and membrane. Implicated inartery disease (multiple); breast cancer; diabetic retinopathy; exfoliationsyndrome; and muscular disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases,including Kawasaki disease; Stevens-Johnson syndrome; autoimmune disease ofmusculoskeletal system (multiple); eye disease (multiple); and invasive ductalcarcinoma.
CPEB2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia;cellular response to insulin stimulus; and negative regulation of cytoplasmictranslation. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus.
CTNNB1: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; alpha-cateninbinding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes,including canonical Wnt signaling pathway; epithelial tube morphogenesis;and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of orwithin positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Locatedin several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; euchromatin;and lateral plasma membrane. Part of several cellular components, includingbeta-catenin destruction complex; beta-catenin-TCF7L2 complex; and catenincomplex. Implicated in several diseases, including autosomal dominant intellectualdevelopmental disorder 19; exudative vitreoretinopathy 7; hepatocellular carcinoma(multiple); nephroblastoma; and pilomatrixoma. Biomarker of several diseases,including carcinoma (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple);germ cell cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple); and urinary system cancer(multiple).
CXCL16: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell growth; response to tumor necrosis factor; andresponse to type II interferon. Located in extracellular space. Biomarkerof COVID-19 and systemic scleroderma.
CYP51A1: Enables heme binding activity and sterol 14-demethylase activity.Involved in steroid biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum.
DHCR7: Enables 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase activity. Involved in cholesterolbiosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear outer membrane.Implicated in Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome.
EBP: Enables identical protein binding activity and steroid delta-isomeraseactivity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process and ossification involvedin bone maturation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear envelope.Implicated in MEND syndrome; X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2; and chondrodysplasiapunctata.
ECH1: Predicted to enable delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase activity.Predicted to be involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in extracellularexosome and membrane.
ERRFI1: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof epidermal growth factor-activated receptor activity and negative regulationof protein autophosphorylation. Located in cytosol.
ETHE1: Enables identical protein binding activity; iron ion binding activity;and sulfur dioxygenase activity. Involved in glutathione metabolic processand hydrogen sulfide metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion and nucleoplasm.Implicated in ethylmalonic encephalopathy.
FABP5: Enables fatty acid binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and long-chain fatty acid transporter activity. Involved in lipid transportacross blood-brain barrier and long-chain fatty acid transport. Located incytoplasm and nucleus. Biomarker of prostate cancer and psoriasis.
FADS2: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors,with oxidation of a pair of donors resulting in the reduction of molecularoxygen to two molecules of water. Predicted to be involved in lipid metabolicprocess. Located in membrane.
FASN: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activity. Involvedin osteoblast differentiation. Located in Golgi apparatus; cytosol; and plasmamembrane. Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
FBXO6: Predicted to enable carbohydrate binding activity. Predicted to contributeto ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomalubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Located in cytoplasm. Partof SCF ubiquitin ligase complex.
FDFT1: Predicted to enable farnesyl-diphosphate farnesyltransferase activityand squalene synthase activity. Predicted to be involved in cholesterol biosyntheticprocess and farnesyl diphosphate metabolic process. Located in endoplasmicreticulum.
FDPS: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in farnesyl diphosphatebiosynthetic process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Implicated in porokeratosis.
GLDC: Enables glycine dehydrogenase (decarboxylating) activity. Involved inglycine catabolic process. Located in mitochondrion; nucleoplasm; and plasmamembrane. Implicated in glycine encephalopathy. Biomarker of stomach cancer.
GNAI1: Enables GTP binding activity. Involved in cell division; positive regulationof protein localization to cell cortex; and regulation of mitotic spindleorganization. Located in several cellular components, including cell cortex;centrosome; and midbody.
GPX8: Enables peroxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular responseto oxidative stress. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen.
GSTM2: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; glutathioneperoxidase activity; and glutathione transferase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular detoxification of nitrogen compound; long-chainfatty acid metabolic process; and regulation of release of sequestered calciumion into cytosol. Located in cytosol; intercellular bridge; and sarcoplasmicreticulum.
GUSB: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in glucuronoside catabolic process.Predicted to act upstream of or within carbohydrate metabolic process. Locatedin extracellular space and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicatedin Sly syndrome.
HMGCR: Enables NADPH binding activity; coenzyme A binding activity; and hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoAreductase (NADPH) activity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in severaldiseases, including asthma; coronary artery disease (multiple); dementia;diabetes mellitus (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic process and farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process,mevalonate pathway. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to beactive in cytosol.
HSD17B7: Enables 3-keto sterol reductase activity; 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-dioldehydrogenase activity; and estradiol 17-beta-dehydrogenase [NAD(P)] activity.Involved in androgen metabolic process; cholesterol biosynthetic process;and estrogen biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and manganese ion binding activity. Involved in isoprenoidbiosynthetic process. Located in peroxisome.
JAG1: Enables Notch binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and phospholipidbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including circulatory systemdevelopment; negative regulation of cell adhesion; and neuronal stem cellpopulation maintenance. Located in plasma membrane. Colocalizes with membrane.Implicated in Alagille syndrome; Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; congenital heartdisease; multiple sclerosis; and tetralogy of Fallot. Biomarker of hepatocellularcarcinoma; multiple sclerosis; osteoarthritis; and temporal arteritis.
LDLR: Enables several functions, including low-density lipoprotein particlebinding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; andvery-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasis; cholesterol transport; and long-termmemory. Located in several cellular components, including clathrin-coatedpit; endosome; and external side of plasma membrane. Part of PCSK9-LDLR complexand receptor complex. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease; arteriosclerosis;familial hypercholesterolemia; hepatitis C; and migraine without aura. Biomarkerof systemic lupus erythematosus.
LGALS3: Enables several functions, including IgE binding activity; chemoattractantactivity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including leukocyte chemotaxis; positive regulation of calciumion import; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellularcomponents, including immunological synapse; mitochondrial inner membrane;and nucleoplasm. Is active in extracellular space. Colocalizes with collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Implicated in asthma. Biomarker of COVID-19; aorticvalve stenosis; and liver cirrhosis.
LGMN: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to amyloid-beta; positive regulation of chemotaxis;and proteolysis. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of neuronapoptotic process. Located in extracellular region and perinuclear regionof cytoplasm.
LPL: Enables several functions, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan bindingactivity; heparin binding activity; and lipase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasis; positive regulation of lipidstorage; and triglyceride-rich lipoprotein particle remodeling. Located incatalytic complex and extracellular space. Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease;artery disease (multiple); familial hyperlipidemia (multiple); muscular disease;and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of Alzheimer''s disease and type 2diabetes mellitus.
LSS: Enables lanosterol synthase activity. Involved in cholesterol biosyntheticprocess and regulation of protein stability. Located in endoplasmic reticulummembrane and lipid droplet. Implicated in alopecia-mental retardation syndrome4; cataract; cataract 44; and hypotrichosis 14.
MAL2: Predicted to be a structural constituent of myelin sheath. Predictedto be involved in myelination. Located in membrane raft.
MVD: Enables Hsp70 protein binding activity; diphosphomevalonate decarboxylaseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in isoprenoid biosyntheticprocess and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Locatedin cytosol. Implicated in porokeratosis.
MVK: Enables identical protein binding activity and mevalonate kinase activity.Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process; isoprenoid biosynthetic process;and negative regulation of inflammatory response. Located in cytosol and intracellularmembrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in lipid metabolism disorder; mevalonicaciduria; and porokeratosis.
NFIL3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in RNA polymeraseII transcription regulator complex. Biomarker of severe acute respiratorysyndrome.
NIBAN1: Predicted to be involved in regulation of protein metabolic processand response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Located in cytosol and plasmamembrane.
NSDHL: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH groupof donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. Predicted to be involved in cholesterolmetabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within hair follicle development;labyrinthine layer blood vessel development; and smoothened signaling pathway.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and lipid droplet. Implicated in CHILD syndromeand CK syndrome.
PCYT2: Enables ethanolamine-phosphate cytidylyltransferase activity. Involvedin phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthetic process. Predicted to be locatedin endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm. Implicatedin hereditary spastic paraplegia 82.
PDK3: Enables ATP binding activity; protein serine/threonine kinase activity;and pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha signalingpathway; peroxisome proliferator activated receptor signaling pathway; andregulation of acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate. Located in mitochondrionand nucleolus. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease X-linked dominant6.
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation ofepidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulationof release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Located in several cellularcomponents, including cell surface; protein complex involved in cell-matrixadhesion; and serine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicated in rheumatoidarthritis. Biomarker of several diseases, including Lyme disease; artery disease(multiple); end stage renal disease; hepatitis B; and melioidosis.
PLSCR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; metal ion binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylserineexposure on apoptotic cell surface; positive regulation of DNA topoisomerase(ATP-hydrolyzing) activity; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess. Located in several cellular components, including membrane raft;nuclear lumen; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
PMVK: Enables ATP binding activity and phosphomevalonate kinase activity.Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process and response to cholesterol.Located in cytosol and peroxisome. Implicated in porokeratosis.
PNRC1: Predicted to be active in nucleus.
PPARG: Enables several functions, including R-SMAD binding activity; RNA polymeraseII-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and proteindomain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of lipid storage; regulation of DNA-templated transcription;and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signalingpathway. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of signal transductionand regulation of gene expression. Located in RNA polymerase II transcriptionregulator complex and nucleoplasm. Part of receptor complex. Is active innucleus. Implicated in several diseases, including cardiovascular system disease(multiple); end stage renal disease; lipodystrophy (multiple); obesity; andtype 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of Graves ophthalmopathy; coronary arterydisease; hepatocellular carcinoma; and pancreatic ductal carcinoma.
S100A11: Enables S100 protein binding activity; calcium-dependent proteinbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in positiveregulation of smooth muscle cell migration. Located in cytoplasm; nucleus;and ruffle.
SC5D: Enables C-5 sterol desaturase activity. Predicted to be involved incholesterol biosynthetic process via lathosterol. Predicted to be locatedin endoplasmic reticulum. Predicted to be active in endoplasmic reticulummembrane.
SCD: Enables iron ion binding activity and stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity.Involved in unsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmicreticulum membrane and nucleolus.
SEMA3B: Predicted to enable chemorepellent activity and semaphorin receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of axon extension involved in axon guidance; neural crestcell migration; and semaphorin-plexin signaling pathway. Part of collagen-containingextracellular matrix.
SQLE: Enables FAD binding activity and squalene monooxygenase activity. Involvedin lipid droplet formation; regulation of cell population proliferation; andsterol biosynthetic process. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelleand membrane.
SREBF2: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and E-box binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingSREBP signaling pathway; cellular response to low-density lipoprotein particlestimulus; and positive regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process. Actsupstream of or within positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and nucleoplasm. Part of SREBP-SCAP-Insigcomplex. Implicated in carotid artery disease; diabetes mellitus (multiple);prostate cancer; sarcoma; and vascular dementia. Biomarker of prostate cancer.
STARD4: Enables cholesterol binding activity and cholesterol transfer activity.Involved in cholesterol transport and positive regulation of steroid metabolicprocess. Located in cytoplasm. Part of cytoplasmic vesicle.
STX5: Enables SNAP receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includingGolgi disassembly; early endosome to Golgi transport; and regulation of Golgiorganization. Located in Golgi apparatus and vesicle.
TM7SF2: Enables delta14-sterol reductase activity. Involved in cholesterolbiosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. Part of receptor complex.
TMEM97: Involved in cholesterol homeostasis. Located in several cellular components,including lysosome; nuclear membrane; and rough endoplasmic reticulum.
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regulation of wound healing. Predicted to be located in cell surfaceand ruffle. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane.
TP53INP1: Predicted to enable antioxidant activity. Involved in autophagiccell death; positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and positiveregulation of autophagy. Located in autophagosome; cytosol; and nucleus.
TRIB3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; negative regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of protein kinase activity.Located in nucleoplasm.
////
A2M: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; cytokine binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity. Involved in negative regulation of complement activation, lectinpathway. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome. Colocalizeswith collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in COVID-19; backgrounddiabetic retinopathy; multiple sclerosis; neurodegen...
ACVR1B: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; activinreceptor activity, type I; and inhibin binding activity. Contributes to activinbinding activity; activin receptor activity; and growth factor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway;positive regulation of erythrocyte differentiation; and protein phosphorylation.Located in cell surface; cytosol; and plasma membrane. Part of activin receptorcomplex. Implicated in lung non-small cell carcinoma; lung sm...
ACVRL1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; activinbinding activity; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including endothelium development;positive regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinasesignaling pathway; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinasesignaling pathway. Located in cell surf...
BAK1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity; protein homodimerizationactivity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; cellularresponse to mechanical stimulus; and regulation of apoptotic process. Locatedin mitochondrial outer membrane. Part of BAK complex and pore complex. Implicatedin ataxia telan...
CBL: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and ephrin receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of receptor-mediatedendocytosis; regulation of signal transduction; and ubiquitin-dependent proteincatabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including Golgiapparatus; cilium; and cytosol. Implicated in acute myeloid leukemia; congestiveheart failure; juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia; lung non-small cell carcinoma;and myeloid neopla...
CCL7: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; positive regulationof natural killer cell chemotaxis; and regulation of cell shape. Predictedto be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellularspace. Implicated in multiple sclerosis. Biomarker of several diseases, includingautoimmune disease (multiple); lung disease (mu...
CCR1: Enables C-C chemokine binding activity; C-C chemokine receptor activity;and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade; positive regulationof monocyte chemotaxis; and positive regulation of osteoclast differentiation.Located in external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in allergic contactdermatitis and rheumatoid arthritis. Biomarker of Alzh...
CD14: Enables lipopeptide binding activity; lipopolysaccharide binding activity;and lipoteichoic acid binding activity. Involved in cellular response to bacteriallipopeptide; positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling; and positiveregulation of interleukin-8 production. Acts upstream of or within cellularresponse to lipopolysaccharide; cellular response to lipoteichoic acid; andpositive regulation of tumor necrosis factor production. Located in Golgiapparatus; external side of plasma membrane; and membrane raft. Part of lipopolysaccharidereceptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including IgA glomerulonephritis;artery disease (multiple); celiac disease; cystic fibrosis; and pulmonarytuberculosis...
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoproteinparticle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-betaclearance by cellular catabolic process; lipid transport; and second-messenger-mediatedsignaling. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus;cell surface; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in severaldiseases, including blood platelet disease (multiple); hemolytic-uremic syndrome;osteoarthritis; pulmonary tuberculosis; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarkero...
CD38: Predicted to enable NAD+ nucleosidase activity and phosphorus-oxygenlyase activity. Involved in several processes, including B cell receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of B cell proliferation; and regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription. Located in plasma membrane...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Located in several cellular components,including Golgi apparatus; apical plasma membrane; and lamellipodium membrane.Part of macrophage migration inhibitory factor receptor complex. Implicatedin breast carcinoma (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); and pr...
CD9: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingfusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization; glialcell migration; and negative regulation of platelet aggregation. Located inextracellular exosome. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in prostateadenocarcinoma. Biomarker of breast carcinoma; female reproductive organ cancer(mu...
CNTFR: Enables cytokine binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor activity. Involved inciliary neurotrophic factor-mediated signaling pathway and negative regulationof neuron apoptotic process. Part of CNTFR-CLCF1 complex; a...
CRLF2: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of interleukin-5 production; positive regulationof mast cell activation; and positive regulation of receptor signaling pathwayvia STAT. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be partof r...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and positive regulation of macrophage migration. Acts upstream of or withinpositive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellularcomponents, including extracellular space; nuclear body; and perinuclear regionof cytoplasm. Implicated in interstitial cystitis. Biomarker of se...
CSF2: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to cytokine stimulus; myeloid leukocyte differentiation;and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in extracellularspace; granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor complex;and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in acute myeloidleukemia; juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia; neutropenia; pulmonary alveolarproteinosis; and...
CSF2RA: Predicted to enable granulocyte colony-stimulating factor bindingactivity and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor activity. Involvedin cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of leukocyteproliferation; and protein phosphorylation. Located in granulocyte macrophagecolony-stim...
CSF2RB: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to contributeto interleukin-3 receptor activity and interleukin-5 receptor activity. Involvedin cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of leukocyteproliferation; and protein phosphorylation. Located in granulocyte macrophagecolony-st...
CSF3R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity and granulocyte colony-stimulatingfactor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signalingpathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within neutrophil chemotaxis andregulation of myeloid cell differentiation. Predicted to be located in endocyticvesicle membrane; lysosomal membrane; and plasma membrane. Predicted to bepart of receptor complex. Predicted to be active in external side of plasmamembrane. Implicated in hematologic cancer (multiple); hereditary neutrophilia;and severe congenital ...
CXCL1: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide and killing of cells of another organism. Predicted to be locatedin extracellular region; specific granule lumen; and tertiary granule lumen.Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Biomarker of asthma;...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regulationof leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to virus. Acts upstream of or withincellular response to lipopolysaccharide and positive regulation of T cellmigration. Located in extracellular region. Implicated in hepatitis B andmiddle cerebral artery infarction. Biomarker of several diseases, includingartery di...
CXCL11: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cellchemotaxis; killing of cells of another organism; and positive regulationof release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. Predicted to be locatedin extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Biomarker...
CXCL13: Enables chemokine receptor binding activity; fibroblast growth factorbinding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cell chemotaxis; defense response to other organism; and reg...
CXCL3: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide and killing of cells of ...
CXCL9: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including antimicrobial humoral immune responsemediated by antimicrobial peptide; killing of cells of another organism; andpositive regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol. Predictedto be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellularspace. Biomarker of several diseases, including chronic fatigue s...
DNTT: Enables DNA nucleotidylexotransferase activity. Involved in DNA metabolicprocess. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Biomarker...
EBI3: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in leptin-mediatedsignaling pathway. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen;extracellular space; and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of receptorcomplex....
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellsurface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolicprocess; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withinapoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including cellsurface; membrane raft; and nuclear body. Part of CD95 death-inducing signalingcomplex. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple);cystic fibrosis; hematologic cancer (multiple); pre-eclampsia (multiple);and urinary system cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several d...
GRB2: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; insulinreceptor substrate binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ionizing radiation;signal transduction in response to DNA damage; and transmembrane receptorprotein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within actincytoskeleton reorganization. Located in endosome; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm.Part of COP9 signalosome and Grb2-...
HAX1: Enables interleukin-1 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positiveregulation of protein phosphorylation; and regulation of actin cytoskeletonorganization. Located in mitochondrial intermembrane space and mitochondrialouter membrane. Part o...
HMOX1: Enables several functions, including heme binding activity; heme oxygenase(decyclizing) activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved inseveral processes, including porphyrin-containing compound catabolic process;positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involvedin sprouting angiogenesis; and regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation.Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); cerebrovasculardisease (multiple); factor VIII deficiency; lung disease (multiple); and type2 diabetes melli...
IFNAR1: Enables cytokine binding activity and type I interferon receptor activity.Involved in positive regulation of cellular respiration and type I interferon-mediatedsignaling pathway. Located in plasma membrane. Implicat...
IFNGR1: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including glial cell activation; negative regulationof amyloid-beta clearance; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess. Predicted to act upstream of or within defense response to virus.Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in asthma; hepatitis B; immunodeficiency27A; immunodeficiency 27B...
IFNGR2: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or withindefense response to virus. Located in endoplasmic reticulum a...
IL10RB: Predicted to enable interleukin-10 receptor activity. Involved inpositive regulation of cellular respiration and positive regulation of receptorsignaling pathway via JAK-STAT. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predictedto be active in plasma membra...
IL12RB1: Contributes to cytokine receptor activity; interleukin-12 receptorbinding activity; and interleukin-23 binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of defense response to virus by host;positive regulation of lymphocyte proliferation; and positive regulation oftype II interferon production. Part of interleukin-12 receptor complex andinterleukin-...
IL13RA1: Predicted to enable ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor bindingactivity; cytokine binding activity; and leukemia inhibitory factor receptoractivity. Predicted to contribute to oncostatin-M receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway and positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane.Predicted to be part of receptor complex. Predicted to be active in externalside of plasma membrane. Implicated ...
IL15RA: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity and protein kinase bindingactivity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signaling pathway and positiveregulation of phagocytosis. Located in cell...
IL17RA: Enables interleukin-17 receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including fibroblast activation; interleukin-17-mediated signaling pathway;and positive regulation of cytokine production. Predicted to be located...
IL17RB: Predicted to enable interleukin-17 receptor activity. Predicted tobe involved in defense response. Predicted to act upstream of or within positiveregulation of inflammatory response; positive regulation of interleukin-13production; and positive regulation of interleukin-5 production...
IL18R1: Enables interleukin-18 binding activity and interleukin-18 receptoractivity. Involved in interleukin-18-mediated signaling pathway and regulationof gene expression. Part of interleukin-18 receptor complex. Implicated inasthma. Biomarker of hepatocellular carci...
IL1B: Enables cytokine activity; integrin binding activity; and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of monooxygenaseactivity; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withincellular response to organic substance; cellular response to xenobiotic stimulus;and positive regulation of interleukin-6 production. Located in extracellularregion. Is active in extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases,including autoimmune disease (multiple); blood platelet disease (multiple);cervix disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); and lung disease (multiple).Biomark...
IL1R1: Enables interleukin-1 receptor activity and platelet-derived growthfactor receptor binding activity. Involved in interleukin-1-mediated signalingpathway; positive regulation of T-helper 1 cell cytokine production; and positiveregulation of type II interferon production. Located in membrane. Implicatedin systemic scleroderma and type 1 diabetes mellitus. ...
IL1R2: Predicted to enable interleukin-1 binding activity and interleukin-1receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in immune response. Predictedto act upstream of or within negative regulation of gene expression and negativeregulation of interleukin-1-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to be locatedin plasma membrane. Implicated in aggressive periodontitis; esophageal cancer;lung cancer; and org...
IL2RA: Contributes to interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in regulationof T cell tolerance induction. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane.Predicted to be part of interleukin-2 receptor complex. Implicated in immunodeficiency41; lymphopenia; multiple sclerosis; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 1diabetes mellitus 10. Biomarker of COVID-...
IL2RG: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediatedsignaling pathway and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in cellsurface. Implicated in X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency; combinedT cell and B cell immunodeficie...
IL3RA: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity and interleukin-3 bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway.Predicted to act upstream of or within interleukin-3-mediated signaling pathway;monocyte differentiation; and regulation of cell growth. Predicted to be locatedin plasma membrane. Predicted to b...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including defense response to protozoan; negativeregulation of T-helper 1 cell differentiation; and positive regulation ofimmune effector process. Located in centriolar satellite; nucleoplasm; andplasma membrane. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases,including acne; allergic conjunctivitis; multiple sclerosis (multiple); renal...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto lipopolysaccharide; positive regulation of leukocyte adhesion to vascularendothelial cell; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process.Located in extracellular space. Part of interleukin-6 receptor complex. Implicatedin several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); eye disease(multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); glucose metabolismdisease (multiple); and periodontal disease (multiple). ...
IL6ST: Enables several functions, including ciliary neurotrophic factor receptoractivity; ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding activity; and scaffoldprotein binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptor activity; interleukin-6binding activity; and interleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; positiveregulation of osteoblast differentiation; and regulation of signal transduction.Located in extracellular space. Part of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptorcomplex; interleukin-6 receptor complex; and oncostatin-M receptor complex.Is active in membrane raft. Implicated in ...
IL7: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway;positive regulation of chemokine production; and positive regulation of cytokine-mediatedsignaling pathway. Located in extracellular region. Part of collagen-containingextracellular matrix. Implicated in epidermodysplasia verruciformis....
IL9R: Predicted to enable interleukin-9 binding activity and interleukin-9receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signalingpathway and immunoglobulin mediated immune response. Predicted to act upstreamof or within B cell activation; interleukin-9-mediated signaling pathway;and regulation of protein metabolic process. Predicted to be located in cellsurface. Pre...
INHBE: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Predicted to be involved inSMAD protein signal transduction and positive regulation of pathway-restrictedSMAD protein phosphorylation. Part...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto interferon-beta; cellular response to mechanical stimulus; and regulationof DNA-templated transcription. Located in chromatin. Implicated in asthma;gastric ...
IRF9: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNApolymerase II. Located in ISGF3 complex and cytosol. Implicat...
ITGA4: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity. Contributes to C-X3-Cchemokine binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell-celladhesion in response to extracellular stimulus; cell-cell adhesion mediatedby integrin; and cellular response to amyloid-beta. Located in cell surfaceand plasma membrane. Part of integri...
ITGB3: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;protein disulfide isomerase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including apolipoprotein A-I-mediatedsignaling pathway; negative regulation of lipid localization; and positiveregulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negativeregulation of low-density lipoprotein receptor activity. Located in severalcellular components, including cell projection membrane; focal adhesion; andmelanosome. Part of several cellular components, including alphav-beta3 integrin-HMGB1complex; alphav-beta3 integrin-IGF-1-IGF1R complex; and alphav-beta3 integrin-PKCalphacomplex. Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in several diseases,including acute myeloid leukemia; autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura; bloodplatelet disease (multiple); end ...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMADbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationby host of viral transcription; regulation of DNA-templated transcription;and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway.Located in euchromatin; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of transcriptionfactor AP-1 complex. Implicated in pul...
LEPR: Enables identical protein binding activity and leptin receptor activity.Involved in several processes, including angiogenesis; leptin-mediated signalingpathway; and negative regulation of autophagy. Part of receptor complex. Implicatedin several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); non-alcoholic fattyliver disease (multiple); obesity; obstructive sleep apnea; and type 2 diabetesmellitus. Biomarker of arteriosclerosis; chronic obstruct...
LTB: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in positive regulation of interleukin-12 production. Predictedto act upstream of or within gene expression; lymph node development; andskin ...
LTBR: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Involved in cellular response to mechanical stimulus andpositive regulation of sign...
MAP3K8: Predicted to enable MAP kinase kinase kinase activity. Predicted tobe involved in MAPK cascade and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytosol.Implicated in clear cell renal cell carcinoma and stomach cancer. Biomarkerof breast cancer; carcinoma (mu...
MYD88: Enables TIR domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein self-association. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to mechanical stimulus; defense response to other organism; and positiveregulation of gene expression. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicatedin colorectal cancer (multiple); hepatocellular carcinoma; lung cancer (multiple);lymphoma (multiple); and primary immunodeficiency disease. Biomarker of anogenital...
OSMR: Enables growth factor binding activity. Contributes to oncostatin-Mreceptor activity. Involved in oncostatin-M-mediated signaling pathway andpositive regulation of cell population proliferation. Part of apical plasmamembrane and oncostatin-M receptor c...
PDGFC: Enables platelet-derived growth factor receptor binding activity andprotein homodimerization activity. Involved in platelet-derived growth factorreceptor signaling pathway and positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation.Located in several cellular comp...
PF4: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and heparin bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; and regulatio...
PIK3R5: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activityand G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; phosphatidylinositol3-kinase signaling; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction.Located in centriolar satelli...
PIM1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; manganeseion binding activity; and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation;positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity;and vitamin D ...
PLA2G2A: Enables calcium-dependent phospholipase A2 activity and phospholipidbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense responseto Gram-positive bacterium; glycerophospholipid metabolic process; and positiveregulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Located in endoplasmic reticulum andextracellular space. Implicated in cholecystolithiasis; colorectal cancer;gastroesophageal reflux disease; and human immunodeficiency virus infecti...
PTPN1: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; signaling receptor bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of receptor catabolic process; regulation of protein kinaseactivity; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytoplasmic sideof endoplasmic reticulum membrane and early endosome. Part of prote...
PTPN11: Enables several functions, including insulin receptor binding activity;non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; and phosphotyrosineresidue binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to epidermal growth factor stimulus; positive regulation of signaltransduction; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signalingpathway. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Part of protein-containing complex.Implicated in several diseases, including Noonan syndrome (multiple); Noonansyndrome with multiple lentigines 1; atr...
PTPN2: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; signaling receptor bindingactivity; and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of signal transduction; peptidyl-tyrosine dephosphorylation;and regulation of hepatocyte growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Locatedin several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmicreticulum-Golgi i...
REG1A: Enables growth factor activity and molecular function inhibitor activity.Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cell wall disruptionin another organism; pancreas regeneration; and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinasesignaling. Predicted to act upstream of or within with a positive effect ongene expression. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in type 1 d...
SOCS1: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in macrophage differentiation; negativeregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein; and positive regulationof regulatory T cell differentiation. Located in cytoplasmic ribonucleoproteingranule and nucleoplasm. Implicated in acute myeloid leukemia; gastrointestinalsystem cancer (multiple); reproductive organ cancer (multiple); and urinarybladder cancer. Biomarker of ductal carcinoma in situ; esophageal can...
SOCS3: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activity.Involved in negative regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein.Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be part of phosphatidylinositol3-kinase complex. Implicated in atopic dermatitis 4. Biomarker of severaldiseases, including ductal carcinoma in situ; human immunodeficienc...
STAM2: Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol binding activity and ubiquitinbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. ...
STAT1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II transcriptionregulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; enzyme binding activity;and transcription coregulator binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; macrophage derived foamcell differentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process.Located in several cellular components, including chromatin; nucleus; andperinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizeswith nucleus. Implicated in adenocarcinoma (multiple); breast carcinoma; immunodeficiency31A; immunodeficiency 31B; ...
STAT2: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin-like proteinligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defenseresponse to other organism; negative regulation of type I interferon-mediatedsignaling pathway; and regulation of mitochondrial fission. Located in ISGF3complex; cytosol; and plasma membrane. Imp...
STAT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity;and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of erythrocytedifferentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process.Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nucleus. Part of transcription regulatorcomplex. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple);carcinoma (multiple); hyper IgE recurrent infection syndrome 1; reproductiveorgan cancer (multiple); and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of ...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial tomesenchymal transition; negative regulation of gene expression; and positiveregulation of isotype switching to IgA isotypes. Located in several cellularcomponents, including cell surface; transforming growth factor beta complex;and transforming growth factor beta ligand-receptor complex. Colocalizes withmicrovillus. Implicated in several diseases, including Behcet''s disease;artery disease (multiple); bone disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple);and ...
TLR2: Enables several functions, including lipopolysaccharide binding activity;peptide binding activity; and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; positiveregulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of defense response.Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcriptionfactor activity and response to molecule of bacterial origin. Located in severalcellular components, including Golgi apparatus; Toll-like receptor 2-Toll-likereceptor 6 protein complex; and membrane raft. Part of Toll-like receptor1-Toll-like receptor 2 protein complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingautoimmune disease (multiple); dermatitis (multiple); gastrointestinal systemcancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); a...
TNF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protease binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess; positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or withinseveral processes, including negative regulation of apoptotic process; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of gene expression.Located in several cellular components, including cell surface; extracellularspace; and membrane raft. Implicated in several diseases, including arterydisease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple);lung disease (multiple);...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regulation of wound healing. Predicted to be located in cell surfaceand ruffle. Pr...
TNFRSF1A: Enables tumor necrosis factor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to mechanical stimulus; positive regulationof nitrogen compound metabolic process; and tumor necrosis factor-mediatedsignaling pathway. Located in Golgi membrane; extracellular space; and membraneraft. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingIgA glomerulonephritis; acne; allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis; autoimmunedisease (multiple); and autosomal dominant familial periodic fever. Biomarkerof several diseases, including acquired immunodefi...
TNFRSF1B: Enables tumor necrosis factor binding activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to lipopolysaccharideand positive regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis. Locatedin membrane raft. Implicated in several diseases, including Parkinsonism;acne; bone disease (multiple); glomerulonephritis (multiple); and lung disease(multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease ofmusculoskeletal system (multiple); female ...
TNFRSF21: Involved in apoptotic process; cellular response to tumor necrosisfactor; and negative regulation of myelination...
TYK2: Enables growth hormone receptor binding activity and non-membrane spanningprotein tyrosine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of lymphocyteproliferation; and positive regulation of type II interferon produc...
////
ACER1: Enables dihydroceramidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to calcium ion; response to alkaline pH; and sphingolipid metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum.
ACER2: Enables dihydroceramidase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell adhesion; regulation of protein metabolic process; and sphingolipid metabolic process. Located in Golgi membrane.
ACER3: Enables N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase activity and metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including myelination; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and sphingolipid metabolic process. Located in Golgi membrane and endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
ADPRS: Enables O-acetyl-ADP-ribose deacetylase activity; hydrolase activity, acting on glycosyl bonds; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in DNA repair; cellular response to superoxide; and peptidyl-serine ADP-deribosylation. Located in mitochondrion; nuclear body; and site of DNA damage. Implicated in stress-induced childhood-onset neurodegeneration with variable ataxia and seizures.
AGL: Enables 4-alpha-glucanotransferase activity and amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in glycogen catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within glycogen metabolic process. Located in cytoplasm. Implicated in glycogen storage disease III.
AMY1A: Enables alpha-amylase activity; calcium ion binding activity; and chloride ion binding activity. Involved in oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
AMY1B: Enables alpha-amylase activity; calcium ion binding activity; and chloride ion binding activity. Involved in oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
AMY1C: Enables alpha-amylase activity; calcium ion binding activity; and chloride ion binding activity. Involved in oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
AMY2A: Enables alpha-amylase activity; calcium ion binding activity; and chloride ion binding activity. Involved in carbohydrate catabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
AMY2B: Predicted to enable alpha-amylase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.
CEMIP: Enables several functions, including clathrin heavy chain binding activity; hyaluronic acid binding activity; and hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Involved in several processes, including hyaluronan catabolic process; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and positive regulation of transport. Located in clathrin-coated endocytic vesicle; endoplasmic reticulum; and plasma membrane.
CEMIP2: Enables calcium ion binding activity and hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Involved in hyaluronan catabolic process. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and plasma membrane.
CHI3L1: Enables chitin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; response to interleukin-1; and response to interleukin-6. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in asthma and schizophrenia. Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); lung disease (multiple); and reproductive organ cancer (multiple).
CHI3L2: Enables chitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in chitin catabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
CHIA: Enables chitinase activity and kinase binding activity. Involved in chitin catabolic process; positive regulation of chemokine production; and production of molecular mediator involved in inflammatory response. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in asthma. Biomarker of asthma and sinusitis.
CHIT1: Enables endochitinase activity. Involved in chitin catabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
CTBS: Predicted to enable chitinase activity. Predicted to be involved in chitin catabolic process and oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in extracellular space.
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway; positive regulation of retrograde protein transport, ER to cytosol; and protein targeting to ER. Located in aggresome and endoplasmic reticulum quality control compartment.
EDEM2: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway; positive regulation of retrograde protein transport, ER to cytosol; and trimming of terminal mannose on B branch. Located in endoplasmic reticulum.
EDEM3: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum quality control compartment. Predicted to be active in endoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in congenital disorder of glycosylation type II.
ENGASE: Enables mannosyl-glycoprotein endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in protein deglycosylation. Predicted to be located in cytosol.
FUCA1: Enables alpha-L-fucosidase activity. Involved in fucose metabolic process and glycoside catabolic process. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in fucosidosis. Biomarker of diabetes mellitus; type 1 diabetes mellitus; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
FUCA2: Enables alpha-L-fucosidase activity. Involved in several processes, including fucose metabolic process; glycoside catabolic process; and regulation of entry of bacterium into host cell. Located in extracellular space.
GAA: Enables alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Involved in several processes, including glycogen catabolic process; striated muscle contraction; and vacuolar sequestering. Located in lysosome. Implicated in glycogen storage disease II.
GALC: Enables galactosylceramidase activity. Involved in galactosylceramide catabolic process. Predicted to be located in lysosomal lumen. Predicted to be active in lysosome. Implicated in Krabbe disease. Biomarker of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia.
GANAB: Enables glucan 1,3-alpha-glucosidase activity. Involved in N-glycan processing. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of glucosidase II complex. Implicated in polycystic kidney disease; polycystic kidney disease 3; and polycystic liver disease.
GANC: Predicted to enable alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing.
GBA2: Enables beta-glucosidase activity and glucosylceramidase activity. Involved in several processes, including bile acid metabolic process; glucosylceramide catabolic process; and glycoside catabolic process. Located in membrane. Implicated in hereditary spastic paraplegia 46.
GBA3: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds. Involved in several processes, including glycosylceramide catabolic process; positive regulation of exo-alpha-sialidase activity; and protein stabilization. Located in cytosol. Part of catalytic complex.
GLA: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds; protein homodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in glycosphingolipid catabolic process and oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in Golgi apparatus; extracellular region; and lysosome. Implicated in Fabry disease.
GLB1: Enables beta-galactosidase activity and protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involved in glycosphingolipid metabolic process and keratan sulfate catabolic process. Located in Golgi apparatus. Implicated in GM1 gangliosidosis (multiple) and mucopolysaccharidosis IV (multiple).
GLB1L: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and lysosome. Predicted to be active in vacuole.
GLB1L2: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and lysosome. Predicted to be active in vacuole.
GLB1L3: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in lysosome. Predicted to be active in vacuole.
GM2A: Predicted to enable lipid transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in ganglioside catabolic process and lipid transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including lipid storage; neuromuscular process controlling balance; and oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in cytosol and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in GM2 gangliosidosis and GM2 gangliosidosis, AB variant.
GUSB: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in glucuronoside catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in extracellular space and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in Sly syndrome.
HEXA: Enables acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity; beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in ganglioside catabolic process and glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process. Located in azurophil granule; beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase complex; and cytosol. Implicated in Tay-Sachs disease.
HEXB: Enables acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity; beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in ganglioside catabolic process and glycosaminoglycan metabolic process. Located in azurophil granule and beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase complex. Implicated in Sandhoff disease and spinal muscular atrophy.
HEXD: Enables beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in extracellular vesicle.
HPSE: Enables syndecan binding activity. Contributes to heparanase activity. Involved in several processes, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan catabolic process; positive regulation of cell-substrate adhesion; and positive regulation of gene expression. Located in several cellular components, including endosome; heparanase complex; and lysosome.
HPSE2: Enables heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity. Predicted to be involved in extracellular matrix organization. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in extracellular matrix. Implicated in urofacial syndrome.
HYAL1: Enables hyaluronan synthase activity and hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; hyaluronan metabolic process; and regulation of cell growth. Located in several cellular components, including extracellular space; hyaluranon cable; and lysosome. Implicated in mucopolysaccharidosis and mucopolysaccharidosis IX.
HYAL2: Enables several functions, including hyaluronic acid binding activity; hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds; and receptor signaling protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; negative regulation of protein kinase activity; and positive regulation of cytokine production. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; membrane raft; and microvillus. Colocalizes with external side of plasma membrane.
HYAL3: Enables hyaluronoglucuronidase activity and hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to UV-B; cellular response to cytokine stimulus; and hyaluronan catabolic process. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle and lysosome.
HYAL4: Predicted to enable hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in hyaluronan catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within chondroitin sulfate catabolic process. Predicted to be located in cell surface and membrane. Predicted to be active in cytoplasmic vesicle.
IDUA: Enables L-iduronidase activity. Involved in dermatan sulfate catabolic process. Acts upstream of or within heparin catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Scheie syndrome; mucopolysaccharidosis I; mucopolysaccharidosis Ih; and mucopolysaccharidosis Ih/s. Biomarker of mucopolysaccharidosis I.
KL: Enables fibroblast growth factor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of bone mineralization. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in coronary artery disease; intracranial embolism; and spondylosis. Biomarker of chronic kidney disease and end stage renal disease.
LALBA: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including apoptotic process; defense response to bacterium; and lactose biosynthetic process. Predicted to be located in Golgi lumen; Golgi membrane; and extracellular space. Predicted to be part of protein-containing complex. Biomarker of gastroenteritis.
LCT: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellobiose catabolic process; lactose catabolic process; and quercetin catabolic process. Located in external side of apical plasma membrane. Implicated in congenital lactase deficiency.
LCTL: Predicted to enable hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process; lens morphogenesis in camera-type eye; and visual perception. Predicted to be located in brush border and endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
LYG1: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved in defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. Predicted to be active in extracellular region.
LYG2: Enables lysozyme activity. Involved in defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. Located in extracellular region.
LYZ: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in defense response to Gram-positive bacterium and killing of cells of another organism. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in familial visceral amyloidosis.
LYZL1: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be located in extracellular region.
LYZL2: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be located in extracellular region.
LYZL4: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved in fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization. Located in nucleus.
LYZL6: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Involved in defense response to bacterium and fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization. Located in sperm plasma membrane.
MAN1A1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway and protein targeting to ER. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; cytosol; and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment.
MAN1A2: Predicted to enable mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing. Predicted to act upstream of or within glycoprotein metabolic process; lung alveolus development; and respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system. Located in Golgi apparatus.
MAN1B1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway and trimming of terminal mannose on B branch. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle; endoplasmic reticulum quality control compartment; and membrane. Implicated in Rafiq syndrome.
MAN1C1: Predicted to enable mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing. Located in extracellular exosome.
MAN2A1: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing and protein deglycosylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including lung alveolus development; respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system; and retina morphogenesis in camera-type eye. Located in Golgi medial cisterna.
MAN2A2: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing and protein deglycosylation. Predicted to be located in Golgi apparatus and membrane. Predicted to be active in Golgi membrane.
MAN2B1: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Involved in protein modification process. Located in extracellular space and nucleoplasm. Implicated in alpha-mannosidosis.
MAN2B2: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mannose metabolic process and oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.
MAN2C1: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in nucleoplasm.
MANBA: Enables beta-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in glycoprotein catabolic process. Predicted to be located in extracellular space. Predicted to be active in lysosomal lumen. Implicated in beta-mannosidosis.
MANEA: Enables glycoprotein endo-alpha-1,2-mannosidase activity. Located in Golgi apparatus. Is active in Golgi membrane.
MANEAL: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be located in Golgi membrane. Predicted to be active in Golgi apparatus.
MGAM: Enables alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Involved in dextrin catabolic process and maltose catabolic process. Located in apical plasma membrane.
MGAM2: Predicted to enable alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in membrane.
MOGS: Predicted to enable Glc3Man9GlcNAc2 oligosaccharide glucosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in protein N-linked glycosylation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIb.
NAGA: Enables alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in carbohydrate catabolic process and glycolipid catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Kanzaki disease; Schindler disease type 1; angiokeratoma; and neuroaxonal dystrophy.
NAGLU: Predicted to enable alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in glycosaminoglycan catabolic process and nervous system development. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including ear development; locomotor rhythm; and nervous system development. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease axonal type 2V; mucopolysaccharidosis III; and mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB. Biomarker of mucopolysaccharidosis III.
NAGPA: Predicted to enable N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphodiester alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in secretion of lysosomal enzymes. Predicted to be located in membrane.
NEU1: Enables exo-alpha-sialidase activity. Involved in oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in cell junction and lysosome.
NEU2: Enables exo-alpha-(2->3)-sialidase activity and exo-alpha-(2->8)-sialidase activity. Involved in ganglioside catabolic process; glycoprotein catabolic process; and oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in cytosol. Part of catalytic complex.
NEU3: Enables exo-alpha-(2->3)-sialidase activity and exo-alpha-(2->8)-sialidase activity. Involved in several processes, including ganglioside catabolic process; negative regulation of clathrin-dependent endocytosis; and positive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in bounding membrane of organelle and plasma membrane.
NEU4: Enables exo-alpha-(2->3)-sialidase activity and exo-alpha-(2->8)-sialidase activity. Involved in ganglioside catabolic process; glycoprotein catabolic process; and oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane; lysosome; and mitochondrial membrane.
OGA: Enables beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in N-acetylglucosamine metabolic process and protein deglycosylation. Located in cytosol.
OTOG: Predicted to enable alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase activity and structural molecule activity. Predicted to be involved in L-arabinose metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within adult locomotory behavior and sensory perception of sound. Predicted to be located in apical plasma membrane; cytosol; and extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellular matrix and extracellular space. Implicated in autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness 18B.
OTOGL: Predicted to enable alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in L-arabinose metabolic process and sensory perception of sound. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellular matrix and extracellular space. Implicated in autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness 84B.
OVGP1: Predicted to enable chitin binding activity and chitinase activity. Predicted to be involved in chitin catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle and microtubule cytoskeleton.
PARG: Enables poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase activity. Involved in ATP generation from poly-ADP-D-ribose. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Part of nucleus.
PGGHG: Enables protein-glucosylgalactosylhydroxylysine glucosidase activity. Involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol.
SI: Enables oligo-1,6-glucosidase activity. Involved in sucrose catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency.
SPACA3: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Involved in fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization. Located in acrosomal matrix and acrosomal membrane.
SPACA5: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be located in extracellular region.
SPAM1: Predicted to enable hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in hyaluronan catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within single fertilization. Predicted to be located in external side of plasma membrane and membrane raft. Predicted to be active in acrosomal vesicle.
TREH: Enables alpha,alpha-trehalase activity. Involved in trehalose catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.
////
CLEC4D: Enables mannose binding activity and pattern recognition receptor activity. Involved in antifungal innate immune response. Is active in plasma membrane.
FES: Enables immunoglobulin receptor binding activity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and phosphatidylinositol binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cellular component organization; positive regulation of monocyte differentiation; and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm; focal adhesion; and microtubule cytoskeleton. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane. Colocalizes with cytoplasmic vesicle. Implicated in esophagus squamous cell carcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; and lung adenocarcinoma.
FGR: Enables Fc-gamma receptor I complex binding activity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in several processes, including integrin-mediated signaling pathway; positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling; and protein phosphorylation. Located in aggresome and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with cytoskeleton.
IGHA1: Contributes to immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in antibacterial humoral response; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex and secretory dimeric IgA immunoglobulin complex.
IGHA2: Contributes to immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in antibacterial humoral response; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex and secretory dimeric IgA immunoglobulin complex.
IGHD: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of interleukin-1 production. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGHE: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm and external side of plasma membrane.
IGHG1: Enables Fc-gamma receptor I complex binding activity. Involved in antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Located in IgG immunoglobulin complex and extracellular space.
IGHG2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracellular space.
IGHG3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in retina homeostasis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGHG4: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGHM: Contributes to several functions, including immunoglobulin receptor binding activity; peptidoglycan binding activity; and phosphatidylcholine binding activity. Involved in adaptive immune response and defense response to other organism. Located in cell surface and extracellular space. Part of hexameric IgM immunoglobulin complex and pentameric IgM immunoglobulin complex. Implicated in agammaglobulinemia 1.
IGHV1-18: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-24: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-45: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-46: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-58: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-69: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-69-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-69D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1-8: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1OR15-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1OR15-9: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV1OR21-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV2-26: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV2-5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV2-70: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV2-70D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV2OR16-5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-11: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-13: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle.
IGHV3-15: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-16: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-20: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-21: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-23: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGHV3-30: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracellular space.
IGHV3-30-3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-30-5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-33: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-35: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-38: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-43: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-48: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-49: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-53: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-64: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-64D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-66: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGHV3-72: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-73: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-74: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3-9: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracellular exosome.
IGHV3OR15-7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3OR16-10: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3OR16-12: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3OR16-13: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3OR16-17: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV3OR16-8: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-28: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-30-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-30-4: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-31: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-34: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-38-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-39: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-4: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-59: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4-61: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV4OR15-8: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV5-10-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV5-51: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV6-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV7-4-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGHV7-81: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGKC: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in adaptive immune response. Located in IgG immunoglobulin complex.
IGLC1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome.
IGLC2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in IgG immunoglobulin complex.
IGLC3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in IgG immunoglobulin complex.
IGLC6: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracellular space.
IGLC7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
IGLL1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in agammaglobulinemia 2.
IGLL5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracellular exosome.
JCHAIN: Enables IgA binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Contributes to several functions, including immunoglobulin receptor binding activity; peptidoglycan binding activity; and phosphatidylcholine binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex; pentameric IgM immunoglobulin complex; and secretory dimeric IgA immunoglobulin complex.
TARM1: Enables immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell activation. Located in plasma membrane.
TRBC1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
TRBC2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in alpha-beta T cell receptor complex.
TRDC: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane.
////
ABCA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and floppase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; lipid transport; and secretion by cell. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic vesicle; membrane raft; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of intracellular vesicle. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; coronary artery disease; hypolipoproteinemia (multiple); obesity; and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma and primary biliary cholangitis.
ADAM10: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursor protein catabolic process and molecular adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including constitutive protein ectodomain proteolysis; positive regulation of T cell chemotaxis; and toxin transport. Acts upstream of or within membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis and negative regulation of gene expression. Located in several cellular components, including perinuclear endoplasmic reticulum; synaptic membrane; and tetraspanin-enriched microdomain. Part of pore complex. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease 18 and reticulate acropigmentation of Kitamura. Biomarker of colorectal cancer.
ANP32E: Enables histone binding activity; histone chaperone activity; and protein folding chaperone. Predicted to be involved in regulation of apoptotic process. Located in nucleus. Part of Swr1 complex.
AP1G1: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity; kinesin binding activity; and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in Golgi to lysosome transport; endosome to melanosome transport; and positive regulation of natural killer cell degranulation. Located in Golgi apparatus; cytoplasmic vesicle; and cytosol.
AP2B1: Enables clathrin binding activity. Involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis and synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Located in membrane. Part of AP-2 adaptor complex.
AP2M1: Enables signal sequence binding activity and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including endocytosis; negative regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; and regulation of vesicle size. Located in clathrin-coated pit. Part of AP-2 adaptor complex. Implicated in autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder.
AP2S1: Predicted to contribute to clathrin adaptor activity. Involved in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Predicted to be located in cytoplasmic vesicle membrane; cytosol; and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of AP-2 adaptor complex. Predicted to be active in glutamatergic synapse and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Predicted to be extrinsic component of presynaptic endocytic zone membrane. Implicated in familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia 3.
AP3B1: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in melanosome organization. Located in lysosomal membrane. Implicated in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome; Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 2; interstitial lung disease; neutropenia; and pulmonary fibrosis.
AP3S1: Predicted to be involved in anterograde synaptic vesicle transport and vesicle-mediated transport. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of AP-3 adaptor complex.
ARCN1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in Golgi localization; endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport; and retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to endoplasmic reticulum. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including Golgi vesicle transport; adult locomotory behavior; and cerebellar Purkinje cell layer maturation. Located in membrane.
ARF1: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in cellular response to virus and intracellular copper ion homeostasis. Located in cell leading edge. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in periventricular nodular heterotopia.
ARFGAP3: Enables GTPase activator activity. Involved in protein secretion. Located in Golgi apparatus and cytosol.
ARFGEF1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; myosin binding activity; and protein kinase A regulatory subunit binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of GTPase activity; negative regulation of actin filament polymerization; and positive regulation of wound healing. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on protein glycosylation. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi membrane; nuclear lumen; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex.
ARFGEF2: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein kinase A regulatory subunit binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasma membrane transport; positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor production; and receptor recycling. Acts upstream of or within intracellular signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi membrane; microtubule organizing center; and recycling endosome. Implicated in periventricular nodular heterotopia.
ARFIP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Acts upstream of or within intracellular protein transport and regulation of protein secretion. Located in Golgi membrane; cytosol; and trans-Golgi network membrane.
ATP1A1: Enables P-type sodium:potassium-exchanging transporter activity; protein-folding chaperone binding activity; and steroid hormone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to steroid hormone stimulus; intracellular monoatomic cation homeostasis; and monoatomic cation transmembrane transport. Located in several cellular components, including T-tubule; apical plasma membrane; and lateral plasma membrane. Part of sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase complex. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2DD.
ATP6V1B1: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in several processes, including pH reduction; proton transmembrane transport; and vacuolar proton-transporting V-type ATPase complex assembly. Acts upstream of or within regulation of pH and sensory perception of sound. Located in apical plasma membrane. Part of vacuolar proton-transporting V-type ATPase, V1 domain. Implicated in renal tubular acidosis.
ATP6V1H: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in endocytosis. Located in membrane.
ATP7A: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; P-type monovalent copper transporter activity; and copper-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including copper ion export; positive regulation of melanin biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of tyrosinase activity. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; cytoplasmic vesicle; and trans-Golgi network. Implicated in Menkes disease; X-linked distal spinal muscular atrophy 3; cutis laxa; and occipital horn syndrome.
BET1: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and syntaxin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport and vesicle fusion with Golgi apparatus. Located in membrane.
BNIP3: Enables GTPase binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cobalt ion; mitochondrion organization; and regulation of mitochondrion organization. Acts upstream of or within apoptotic process; negative regulation of cell death; and positive regulation of macroautophagy. Located in mitochondrial outer membrane and nuclear envelope. Biomarker of ductal carcinoma in situ and perinatal necrotizing enterocolitis.
CAV2: Enables D1 dopamine receptor binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including caveola assembly; insulin receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Located in caveola; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and transport vesicle. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with focal adhesion. Implicated in low tension glaucoma and primary open angle glaucoma. Biomarker of tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
CD63: Involved in several processes, including endosome to melanosome transport; positive regulation of receptor internalization; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within protein localization and regulation of potassium ion transmembrane transport. Located in several cellular components, including endosome; extracellular exosome; and lysosomal membrane. Biomarker of carotid artery disease and diabetic neuropathy.
CLCN3: Enables PDZ domain binding activity and volume-sensitive chloride channel activity. Involved in chloride transmembrane transport and negative regulation of cell volume. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; cytoplasmic vesicle; and external side of plasma membrane. Is active in GABA-ergic synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and synaptic vesicle membrane.
CLN5: Enables mannose binding activity. Involved in several processes, including lysosomal lumen acidification; nervous system development; and signal peptide processing. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; lysosomal membrane; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicated in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 5.
CLTA: Enables clathrin heavy chain binding activity. Involved in clathrin coat assembly. Located in membrane. Part of clathrin complex.
CLTC: Enables several functions, including clathrin light chain binding activity; disordered domain specific binding activity; and low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; negative regulation of hyaluronan biosynthetic process; and receptor-mediated endocytosis. Acts upstream of or within mitotic spindle assembly. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle; lysosome; and mitotic spindle microtubule. Part of Myb complex and clathrin complex. Implicated in autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder 56.
COG2: Involved in Golgi organization; glycosylation; and retrograde transport, vesicle recycling within Golgi. Located in Golgi stack. Part of Golgi transport complex. Implicated in congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIq.
COPB1: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport and intra-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in Golgi apparatus and cytosol.
COPB2: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Involved in intra-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Part of COPI vesicle coat. Implicated in primary autosomal recessive microcephaly 19.
COPE: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport and intra-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within protein localization to axon. Located in Golgi apparatus and nucleoplasm.
CTSC: Enables cysteine-type peptidase activity. Involved in proteolysis. Located in centrosome and nucleoplasm. Implicated in Papillon-Lefevre disease and aggressive periodontitis.
DNM1L: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrion organization; protein-containing complex assembly; and regulation of mitochondrion organization. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on protein-containing complex assembly. Acts upstream of or within mitochondrion morphogenesis. Located in several cellular components, including mitochondrial outer membrane; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with microtubule and mitochondrion-derived vesicle. Implicated in encephalopathy due to defective mitochondrial and peroxisomal fission 1 and optic atrophy 5. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease and pulmonary fibrosis.
DOP1A: Predicted to be involved in Golgi to endosome transport and endoplasmic reticulum organization. Predicted to be located in Golgi membrane. Predicted to be active in endosome and trans-Golgi network.
DST: Enables integrin binding activity; microtubule plus-end binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; hemidesmosome assembly; and maintenance of cell polarity. Located in several cellular components, including Z disc; cytoskeleton; and hemidesmosome. Implicated in epidermolysis bullosa simplex and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 6.
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributes to nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; endosome; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Is active in ruffle membrane. Colocalizes with endosome. Implicated in several diseases, including colorectal cancer; lung non-small cell carcinoma (multiple); pancreatic cancer; prostate cancer; and pulmonary tuberculosis. Biomarker of several diseases, including Human papillomavirus infectious disease; breast cancer (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; and diabetic retinopathy.
ERGIC3: Enables protein self-association. Involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport and positive regulation of intracellular protein transport. Located in retrograde transporter complex, Golgi to ER. Biomarker of lung adenocarcinoma.
GALC: Enables galactosylceramidase activity. Involved in galactosylceramide catabolic process. Predicted to be located in lysosomal lumen. Predicted to be active in lysosome. Implicated in Krabbe disease. Biomarker of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia.
GBF1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi disassembly; Golgi vesicle transport; and protein localization to organelle. Located in Golgi apparatus; cell leading edge; and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease dominant intermediate A.
GLA: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds; protein homodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in glycosphingolipid catabolic process and oligosaccharide metabolic process. Located in Golgi apparatus; extracellular region; and lysosome. Implicated in Fabry disease.
GNAS: Predicted to enable several functions, including G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity; enzyme activator activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hair follicle placode formation; platelet aggregation; and positive regulation of cAMP-mediated signaling. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and trans-Golgi network membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1; McCune Albright syndrome; pituitary adenoma 3; progressive osseous heteroplasia; and pseudohypoparathyroidism (multiple). Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease; pancreatic cancer; and pseudohypoparathyroidism type IB.
GOLGA4: Enables GTPase binding activity. Involved in Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport and positive regulation of axon extension. Located in Golgi apparatus and nucleoplasm.
GOSR2: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and SNARE binding activity. Involved in intra-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in Golgi membrane. Implicated in progressive myoclonus epilepsy 6.
ICA1: Enables membrane curvature sensor activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transport. Located in Golgi membrane; cytosol; and secretory granule membrane. Implicated in type 1 diabetes mellitus.
IGF2R: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphoprotein binding activity; and retromer complex binding activity. Involved in positive regulation by host of viral process. Located in cell surface; cytoplasmic vesicle; and trans-Golgi network. Implicated in diabetes mellitus (multiple); hepatocellular carcinoma; in situ carcinoma (multiple); and nephroblastoma. Biomarker of breast carcinoma; colon carcinoma; hepatocellular carcinoma; multiple myeloma; and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
KIF1B: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity; and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. Predicted to be involved in chemical synaptic transmission; dense core granule cytoskeletal transport; and vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within mitochondrion transport along microtubule. Predicted to be located in cytoplasmic vesicle membrane and neuron projection. Predicted to be part of kinesin complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including axon; dendrite; and microtubule. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A1; carcinoma (multiple); multiple sclerosis; neuroblastoma; and pheochromocytoma. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
KRT18: Enables scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport; intermediate filament cytoskeleton organization; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in centriolar satellite; cytosol; and keratin filament. Implicated in liver cirrhosis. Biomarker of liver disease (multiple); non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (multiple); and primary sclerosing cholangitis.
LAMP2: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of protein-containing complex assembly; protein catabolic process; and regulation of protein stability. Located in several cellular components, including bounding membrane of organelle; extracellular exosome; and trans-Golgi network. Part of chaperone-mediated autophagy translocation complex. Implicated in Danon disease and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
LMAN1: Enables metal ion binding activity. Involved in Golgi organization; positive regulation of organelle organization; and sequestering of metal ion. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment. Part of collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in factor V deficiency and factor XIII deficiency.
M6PR: Enables retromer complex binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to lysosome. Predicted to act upstream of or within secretion of lysosomal enzymes. Located in endosome and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
MAPK1: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphatase binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including MAPK cascade; cellular response to amino acid starvation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Noonan syndrome 13; adenocarcinoma (multiple); pulmonary hypertension; and renal cell carcinoma. Biomarker of several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease; childhood pilocytic astrocytoma; endocrine gland cancer (multiple); endometrial carcinoma (multiple); and obesity.
MON2: Predicted to enable proton transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in Golgi to endosome transport. Located in early endosome membrane.
NAPA: Predicted to enable soluble NSF attachment protein activity and syntaxin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including SNARE complex disassembly; glutamatergic synaptic transmission; and regulation of synaptic vesicle priming. Predicted to act upstream of or within apical protein localization; brain development; and neuron differentiation. Located in extracellular exosome and membrane.
NAPG: Predicted to enable soluble NSF attachment protein activity and syntaxin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular protein transport. Located in mitochondrion.
OCRL: Enables GTPase activator activity; inositol phosphate phosphatase activity; and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in cilium assembly and regulation of GTPase activity. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic vesicle; photoreceptor outer segment; and trans-Golgi network. Implicated in Dent disease and oculocerebrorenal syndrome.
PAM: Enables several functions, including peptidylamidoglycolate lyase activity; peptidylglycine monooxygenase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in peptide amidation and response to zinc ion. Acts upstream of or within mitotic chromosome condensation. Located in chromatin and condensed chromosome. Biomarker of prostate adenocarcinoma.
PPT1: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity; sulfatide binding activity; and thiolester hydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, including lysosomal lumen acidification; positive regulation of endocytosis; and protein depalmitoylation. Acts upstream of or within pinocytosis and receptor-mediated endocytosis. Located in several cellular components, including lysosome; membrane raft; and synaptic vesicle. Implicated in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1.
RAB14: Enables GTPase activity; guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity; and myosin V binding activity. Involved in endocytic recycling and regulation of protein localization. Located in phagocytic vesicle and recycling endosome.
RAB22A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in endocytosis; endosome organization; and regulation of vesicle size. Located in early endosome; phagocytic vesicle; and plasma membrane.
RAB2A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in Golgi organization. Located in extracellular exosome; lysosomal membrane; and nucleus.
RAB5A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; early endosome to late endosome transport; and regulation of exocytosis. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic side of early endosome membrane; nucleoplasm; and terminal bouton.
RAB9A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in negative regulation by host of symbiont catalytic activity; positive regulation of exocytosis; and regulation of protein localization. Located in late endosome; lysosome; and phagocytic vesicle.
RER1: Predicted to enable acetylcholine receptor binding activity. Involved in retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to endoplasmic reticulum. Located in Golgi membrane.
RPS6KA3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process. Involved in negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in Coffin-Lowry syndrome; intellectual disability; and non-syndromic X-linked intellectual disability 19.
SCAMP1: Predicted to enable protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in protein transport. Located in recycling endosome membrane and trans-Golgi network.
SCAMP3: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within response to retinoic acid. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle.
SCRN1: Predicted to enable cysteine-type exopeptidase activity and dipeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in exocytosis. Located in nuclear membrane.
SEC22B: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of autophagosome assembly and positive regulation of protein catabolic process. Located in ER to Golgi transport vesicle membrane and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment.
SEC24D: Enables SNARE binding activity and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in COPII-coated vesicle cargo loading. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of COPII vesicle coat. Implicated in Cole-Carpenter syndrome.
SEC31A: Enables calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in COPII-coated vesicle cargo loading and response to calcium ion. Located in several cellular components, including COPII-coated ER to Golgi transport vesicle; endoplasmic reticulum exit site; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of COPII vesicle coat.
SGMS1: Enables ceramide cholinephosphotransferase activity; ceramide phosphoethanolamine synthase activity; and sphingomyelin synthase activity. Involved in sphingomyelin biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of or within ceramide biosynthetic process. Located in Golgi membrane and Golgi trans cisterna.
SH3GL2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of blood-brain barrier permeability; negative regulation of gene expression; and negative regulation of protein phosphorylation. Located in perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
SNAP23: Enables syntaxin binding activity. Involved in histamine secretion by mast cell. Located in several cellular components, including adherens junction; nucleoplasm; and secretory granule. Part of SNARE complex and mitochondrion.
SNX2: Enables protein dimerization activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in lamellipodium morphogenesis and retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Located in endosome membrane and lysosome. Part of retromer, tubulation complex.
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxide dismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negative regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation. Located in several cellular components, including dendrite cytoplasm; neuronal cell body; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including Down syndrome; artery disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); glucose metabolism disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including Behcet's disease; artery disease (multiple); cutaneous leishmaniasis; eye disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).
SSPN: Predicted to be involved in cell adhesion and muscle contraction. Located in transport vesicle.
STAM: Enables ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of exosomal secretion and regulation of extracellular exosome assembly. Located in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of ESCRT-0 complex.
STX12: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and SNARE binding activity. Involved in autophagosome assembly; cholesterol efflux; and protein stabilization. Located in several cellular components, including membrane raft; phagocytic vesicle; and phagophore assembly site. Part of SNARE complex. Colocalizes with BLOC-1 complex.
STX16: Enables SNAP receptor activity and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in Golgi ribbon formation; endocytic recycling; and retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus subcompartment; cytosol; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of SNARE complex. Colocalizes with endoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in pseudohypoparathyroidism type IB.
STX7: Enables chloride channel inhibitor activity and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of T cell mediated cytotoxicity; positive regulation of receptor localization to synapse; and regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle; immunological synapse; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
TMED10: Enables protein transmembrane transporter activity and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including COPI-coated vesicle budding; protein localization to ERGIC; and protein transport. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment. Part of gamma-secretase complex. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease.
TMED2: Involved in several processes, including Golgi organization; negative regulation of GTPase activity; and protein localization to plasma membrane. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment.
TMX1: Enables disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Involved in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
TOM1L1: Enables clathrin binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of mitotic nuclear division; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and signal transduction. Located in cytosol and endosome.
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in B cell differentiation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
TSG101: Enables several functions, including protein homodimerization activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and virion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of exosomal secretion; positive regulation of viral budding via host ESCRT complex; and regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in several cellular components, including endosome; extracellular exosome; and nucleolus. Part of ESCRT I complex. Implicated in breast cancer; breast carcinoma; cervix carcinoma; endometrial adenocarcinoma; and prostate cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
TSPAN8: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of blood coagulation. Predicted to act upstream of or within regulation of gene expression and spermatogenesis. Located in extracellular exosome.
USO1: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including Golgi vesicle transport; intracellular protein transport; and transcytosis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including regulation of cellular response to insulin stimulus; secretory granule localization; and small GTPase mediated signal transduction. Located in Golgi apparatus and fibrillar center.
VAMP3: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and syntaxin-1 binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of secretion by cell and retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Located in clathrin-coated vesicle; cytosol; and recycling endosome. Part of SNARE complex.
VAMP4: Involved in several processes, including Golgi ribbon formation; SNARE complex assembly; and endocytic recycling. Located in Golgi apparatus and cell surface.
VAMP7: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and SNARE binding activity. Involved in several processes, including endosome to lysosome transport; leukocyte degranulation; and positive regulation of histamine secretion by mast cell. Located in several cellular components, including pseudopodium; secretory granule; and trans-Golgi network. Part of SNARE complex.
VPS45: Predicted to be involved in intracellular protein transport and vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to be located in Golgi apparatus and membrane. Predicted to be active in Golgi membrane and synaptic vesicle. Implicated in severe congenital neutropenia 5.
VPS4B: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process; regulation of cell cycle process; and regulation of exosomal secretion. Acts upstream of or within endosomal transport. Located in several cellular components, including Flemming body; endosome membrane; and microtubule cytoskeleton.
YIPF6: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within intestinal epithelial cell development. Located in Golgi apparatus subcompartment and endoplasmic reticulum.
YKT6: Enables SNAP receptor activity and protein-cysteine S-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport; retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi; and vesicle docking involved in exocytosis. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; endosome; and mitochondrion.
ZW10: Predicted to enable centromeric DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including establishment of mitotic spindle orientation; mitotic metaphase plate congression; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition. Located in several cellular components, including kinetochore; lipid droplet; and spindle. Part of Dsl1/NZR complex and RZZ complex.
////
ADAR: Enables double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including adenosine to inosine editing; negative regulationof protein kinase activity by regulation of protein phosphorylation; and nucleocytoplasmictransport. Acts upstream of or...
B2M: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of celldifferentiation; and regulation of receptor binding activity. Located in Golgiapparatus; cyto...
BATF2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA bi...
BST2: Enables metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of intracellular transport of viral material;and negative regulation of pl...
C1S: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in comp...
CASP1: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; positive regulation of signal tr...
CASP8: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in apoptotic signaling pathway; death effector domain binding activity;and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to mechanical stimulus; proteolysis; and regulation of ...
CCRL2: Enables CCR chemokine receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, inc...
CD47: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity and thrombospondin receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including ...
CD74: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;macrophage migration inhibitory factor binding activity; and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including p...
CMPK2: Enables UMP kinase activity; cytidylate kinase activity; and nucleosidediphosphate kinase acti...
CMTR1: Enables mRNA (nucleoside-2''-O-)-methyltransferase activity. In...
CNP: Predicted to enable 2'',3''-cyclic-nucleotide 3''-phosphodiesterase activity.Involved in substantia nigra development. Located in several cellular components,inclu...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and positive regulation of macrophage migr...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regulationof leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to virus. ...
CXCL11: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cellchemotaxis; killing of cells of another organ...
DDX60: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity; double-stranded RNA bindingactivity; and single-stranded RNA binding activity. Inv...
DHX58: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; RNA bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding ...
EIF2AK2: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; eukaryotic translationinitiation factor 2alpha kinase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to amino aci...
ELF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II c...
EPSTI1: ...
GBP2: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto cytokine stimulus and pro...
GBP4: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto type II i...
GMPR: Enables GMP reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in respo...
HELZ2: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved ...
HERC6: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted tobe involved in protein ubiquitination and ubiquitin-depe...
HLA-C: Enables TAP binding activity and peptide antigen binding activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigenvia MHC class I via E...
IFI27: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding activity; and lamin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including defense resp...
IFI30: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors.Predicted to be involved in antigen processing and presentation of exogenouspeptide antigen via MHC clas...
IFI35: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activation involved in immune respo...
IFI44: Predicted to be involved in immune response. Predicted to ...
IFI44L: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Involv...
IFIH1: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; RNA bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of proteinbind...
IFIT3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptot...
IFITM1: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of viralentry into host cell; positive regulation of osteoblast differentiation;...
IFITM2: Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interferon-beta;negative regulation of viral entry...
IFITM3: Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of viral entry into host cell;...
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation;and positive regulation of macromolecule metaboli...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including defense response to protozoan; negative...
IL7: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway;positive regulation of chemokine production; and positive regulation of cytokine-med...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, i...
IRF2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region...
IRF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specificand RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity. Involved in sev...
IRF9: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in posit...
ISG15: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingISG15-protein conjugation; d...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin RNA catabolic p...
LAMP3: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of proteolysis;regulation ...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Predicted t...
LGALS3BP: Predicted to enable scavenger receptor activity. Predicted to beinvolved in cellular def...
LPAR6: Predicted to enable lysophosphatidic acid receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in positive regulation of Rho protein signal transduction andpositive regulat...
LY6E: Predicted to enable acetylcholine receptor inhibitor activity. Involvedin negative regu...
MOV10: Enables 5''-3'' RNA helicase activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defense resp...
MVB12A: Enables lipid binding activity and ubiquitin binding activity. Involvedin regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor ...
MX1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in antiviral innateimmune response; interleukin-27-mediated signaling pathway; and negative regulationof vir...
NCOA7: Enables nuclear receptor binding activity and nuclear receptor coactivatorac...
NMI: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activation involved in immune respo...
NUB1: Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of proteasomalubiquitin-dependent pr...
OAS1: Enables 2''-5''-oligoadenylate synthetase activity and double-strandedRNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto cytokine stimulus; regulat...
OASL: Enables DNA binding activity and double-stranded RNA binding activity.Involved in several processes, including interleukin-...
OGFR: Predicted to enable opioid growth factor receptor...
PARP12: Enables NAD+-protein ADP-ribosyltransferase activity....
PARP14: Enables NAD+ binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and pentosyltransferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, includ...
PARP9: Enables several functions, including ADP-D-ribose binding activity;STAT family protein binding activity; and pentosyltransferase activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive re...
PLSCR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; metal ion binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, in...
PNPT1: Enables several functions, including 3''-5''-RNA exonuclease activity;RNA binding activity; and polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase activity.Involved in several processes, including RNA metabolic process; cellular re...
PROCR: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Involved in negativeregula...
PSMA3: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in regulationof endope...
PSMB8: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in fat cell differentiationand r...
PSMB9: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in regulationof cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Located in cytosol. Implicated inautoimmune di...
PSME1: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activator activity. Predicted tobe involved in positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; regulation ofG1/S tra...
PSME2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; regulation of G1/S transitionof ...
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; proteindomain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to muramyl...
RNF31: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;ubiquitin binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding acti...
RSAD2: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity and protein self-association.Involved in defense response to virus; negative regulation of protein...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. Involved indefense response to virus...
SAMD9: Involved in endosomal vesicle fusion. Located in cytosol and intra...
SAMD9L: Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includingcommon myeloid progenitor cell...
SELL: Enables calcium ion binding activity; oligosaccharide binding activity;and protease binding activity. Involved in calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesionvia plasma membrane cell...
SLC25A28: Predicted to enable ferrous iron transmembrane transporter activ...
SP110: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transcriptionby RNA po...
STAT2: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin-like proteinligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defenseresponse to other organism; ne...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporteractivity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigenvia MHC class I; cytosol to...
TDRD7: Enables mRNA binding activity. Involved in lens fiber cell differentiation;lens morphogenesis i...
TENT5A: Enables poly(A) RNA polymerase activity. Predicted to be involvedin mRNA stabilization; positive regulation of bone mineralization; and positiveregulation ...
TMEM140: Predicted to b...
TRAFD1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. P...
TRIM14: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in innate immuneresponse; negativ...
TRIM21: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivatoractivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes,...
TRIM25: Enables RIG-I binding activity; transcription coactivator activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, includingposit...
TRIM26: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved indefense response to other organism; negative regulatio...
TRIM5: Enables several functions, including pattern recognition receptor activity;protein homodimerization activity; and transcription coactivator activity.Involved in ...
TXNIP: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in cellularrespo...
UBA7: Enables ISG15 activating enzyme activity and ubiquitin-protein transferaseactivity. Involv...
UBE2L6: Enables ubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in ISG15-proteinconjugation; protein polyubiquitination; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic...
USP18: Enables ISG15-specific peptidase activity. Involved in negative regulationof t...
WARS1: Enables several functions, including kinase inhibitor activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and tryptophan-tRNA ligase activity. Involved inseveral processes, includ...
////
ABCC4: Enables several functions, including ABC-type transporter activity;glutathione transmembrane transporter activity; and prostaglandin transmembranetransporter activity. Involved in export across plasma membrane and organicanion transport. Acts upstream of or within cilium assembly and prostaglandinsecretion. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasmamembrane; basolateral plasma membrane; and platelet dense granule membrane.
ABHD2: Enables carboxylic ester hydrolase activity; hormone binding activity;and nuclear steroid receptor activity. Involved in acylglycerol catabolicprocess; response to steroid hormone; and sperm capacitation. Located in spermflagellum and sperm plasma membrane.
ACSL3: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity; protein domain specificbinding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of phosphatidylcholine biosyntheticprocess; positive regulation of transport; and very-low-density lipoproteinparticle assembly. Located in several cellular components, including Golgiapparatus; lipid droplet; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicatedin asthma; breast cancer; and prostate cancer. Biomarker of breast cancer;lung cancer; and prostate cancer.
ACTN1: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and protein homodimerization activity.A structural constituent of postsynapse. Involved in actin filament networkformation; focal adhesion assembly; and platelet formation. Located in severalcellular components, including Z disc; focal adhesion; and stress fiber. Isactive in glutamatergic synapse. Colocalizes with actin filament. Implicatedin platelet-type bleeding disorder 15.
ADAMTS1: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in positive regulationof G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of vascularassociated smooth muscle cell migration; and positive regulation of vascularassociated smooth muscle cell proliferation. Acts upstream of or within negativeregulation of angiogenesis. Colocalizes with collagen-containing extracellularmatrix.
ADRM1: Enables several functions, including endopeptidase activator activity;molecular function inhibitor activity; and proteasome binding activity. Involvedin proteasome assembly and transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II.Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Part of proteasome complex.
AKAP12: Enables adenylate cyclase binding activity. Involved in adenylatecyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway and regulationof protein kinase A signaling. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. Implicatedin chronic kidney disease; colorectal carcinoma; and juvenile myelomonocyticleukemia.
AKT1: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity;anion binding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; intracellular signal transduction;and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstreamof or within activation-induced cell death of T cells; intracellular signaltransduction; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components,including cytosol; microtubule cytoskeleton; and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containingcomplex. Implicated in several diseases, including Cowden syndrome 6; breastcancer (multiple); colorectal cancer (multiple); pancreatic cancer (multiple);and reproductive organ cancer (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, includingcoronary artery disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple);lung disease (multiple); malignant astrocytoma; and urinary system cancer(multiple).
ALDH1A3: Enables aldehyde dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity; protein homodimerizationactivity; and retinal dehydrogenase activity. Involved in protein homotetramerization;retinal metabolic process; and retinoic acid biosynthetic process. Locatedin cytoplasm. Implicated in isolated microphthalmia 8.
ANKH: Enables inorganic diphosphate transmembrane transporter activity andinorganic phosphate transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involvedin ATP export and regulation of bone mineralization. Located in membrane.Implicated in autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia and chondrocalcinosis.
APPBP2: Enables ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptor activity. Involved in proteasome-mediatedubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Acts upstream of or withinintracellular transport. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle membrane and nucleoplasm.Part of Cul2-RING ubiquitin ligase complex.
ARID5B: Enables transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity and transcriptioncoactivator activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription byRNA polymerase II and positive regulation of DNA-binding transcription factoractivity. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be active innucleus.
AZGP1: Involved in cell adhesion and detection of chemical stimulus involvedin sensory perception of bitter taste. Located in extracellular space. Implicatedin prostate carcinoma. Biomarker of several diseases, including gastrointestinalsystem cancer (multiple); kidney failure (multiple); liver cirrhosis; lungadenocarcinoma; and obesity.
B2M: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of celldifferentiation; and regulation of receptor binding activity. Located in Golgiapparatus; cytosol; and plasma membrane. Part of HFE-transferrin receptorcomplex and MHC class I peptide loading complex. Implicated in arthritis;familial visceral amyloidosis; immunodeficiency 43; and inflammatory boweldisease. Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple);encephalomyelitis; measles; obesity; and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
B4GALT1: Enables several functions, including UDP-galactosyltransferase activity;manganese ion binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved inoligosaccharide biosynthetic process and protein N-linked glycosylation. Locatedin several cellular components, including Golgi trans cisterna; basolateralplasma membrane; and brush border membrane. Implicated in congenital disorderof glycosylation and congenital disorder of glycosylation type IId.
BMPR1B: Enables ATP binding activity; SMAD binding activity; and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in several processes, including osteoblast differentiation;positive regulation of bone mineralization; and positive regulation of osteoblastdifferentiation. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be partof receptor complex. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane. Implicatedin acromesomelic dysplasia-3; brachydactyly type A1D; brachydactyly type A2;and osteochondrodysplasia. Biomarker of asthma and pulmonary hypertension.
CAMKK2: Enables calcium ion binding activity. Involved in CAMKK-AMPK signalingcascade; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and protein autophosphorylation.Located in cytosol. Biomarker of high grade glioma.
CCND1: Enables enzyme binding activity; proline-rich region binding activity;and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity;regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and response to UV-A. Locatedin cyclin D1-CDK4 complex and nucleoplasm. Part of cyclin-dependent proteinkinase holoenzyme complex and transcription repressor complex. Implicatedin several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); colorectal cancer; hematologiccancer (multiple); invasive lobular carcinoma; and von Hippel-Lindau disease.Biomarker of several diseases, including carcinoma (multiple); cervix utericarcinoma in situ; colon adenoma; hematologic cancer (multiple); and highgrade glioma (multiple).
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclinD3-CDK4 complex and nucleoplasm. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzymecomplex. Biomarker of invasive ductal carcinoma; multiple myeloma; reproductiveorgan cancer (multiple); and urinary system cancer (multiple).
CDC14B: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in mitotic G2 DNA damage checkpointsignaling; positive regulation of ubiquitin protein ligase activity; and proteindephosphorylation. Located in nucleolus and nucleoplasm. Biomarker of renalcell carcinoma.
CDK6: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; FBXO familyprotein binding activity; and cyclin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of cellular senescence; negativeregulation of osteoblast differentiation; and regulation of myeloid cell differentiation.Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nucleoplasm;and ruffle. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicatedin high grade glioma; lung non-small cell carcinoma; pancreatic adenocarcinoma;pancreatic ductal carcinoma; and primary autosomal recessive microcephaly12. Biomarker of high grade glioma (multiple); lung non-small cell carcinoma(multiple); medulloblastoma; and non-functioning pancreatic endocrine tumor.
CENPN: Predicted to be involved in chromosome segregation and kinetochoreassembly. Located in nucleoplasm.
DBI: Enables identical protein binding activity and long-chain fatty acyl-CoAbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulationof protein lipidation; phosphatidylcholine acyl-chain remodeling; and positiveregulation of CoA-transferase activity. Located in Golgi apparatus and perinuclearendoplasmic reticulum. Part of protein-lipid complex.
DHCR24: Enables enzyme binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and peptide antigen bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol biosyntheticprocess via desmosterol; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity involved in apoptotic process; and response to oxidative stress.Acts upstream of or within cholesterol biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmicreticulum and nucleus. Implicated in lipid metabolism disorder.
DNAJB9: Enables misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in ubiquitin-dependentERAD pathway. Located in endoplasmic reticulum.
ELK4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; and chromatin binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II and positive regulation of transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on histone H3deacetylation. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm.
ELL2: Predicted to enable cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity. Involved in snRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located innucleoplasm. Part of transcription elongation factor complex.
ELOVL5: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid biosyntheticprocess and positive regulation of fatty acid biosynthetic process. Locatedin dendritic tree; endoplasmic reticulum; and neuronal cell body. Implicatedin spinocerebellar ataxia type 38.
FADS1: Enables acyl-CoA delta5-desaturase activity and linoleoyl-CoA desaturaseactivity. Involved in cellular response to starvation. Acts upstream of orwithin long-chain fatty acid biosynthetic process and unsaturated fatty acidbiosynthetic process. Located in membrane.
FKBP5: Enables heat shock protein binding activity and peptidyl-prolyl cis-transisomerase activity. Involved in chaperone-mediated protein folding. Locatedin nucleoplasm. Implicated in major depressive disorder.
GNAI3: Enables GDP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including GTP metabolic process; dopamine receptor signaling pathway;and positive regulation of macroautophagy. Located in several cellular components,including centrosome; midbody; and plasma membrane. Colocalizes with Golgimembrane and endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
GPD1L: Enables sodium channel regulator activity and transmembrane transporterbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulationof protein kinase C signaling; positive regulation of protein localizationto cell surface; and regulation of sodium ion transport. Located in plasmamembrane. Implicated in Brugada syndrome 2.
GSR: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity andglutathione-disulfide reductase (NADPH) activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell redox homeostasis; cellular response to oxidative stress; and glutathionemetabolic process. Located in cytosol. Implicated in macular degeneration.Biomarker of several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); cataract(multiple); diabetic angiopathy; hematologic cancer (multiple); and hemolyticanemia (multiple).
GUCY1A1: Enables guanylate cyclase activity. Involved in cGMP biosyntheticprocess and nitric oxide-cGMP-mediated signaling pathway. Part of guanylatecyclase complex, soluble. Implicated in Moyamoya disease.
H1-0: Enables chromatin DNA binding activity. Involved in heterochromatinformation and positive regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA bindingactivity. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus;euchromatin; and nuclear body. Part of transcription repressor complex.
HERC3: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted tobe involved in protein ubiquitination and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolicprocess. Located in cytosol.
HMGCR: Enables NADPH binding activity; coenzyme A binding activity; and hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoAreductase (NADPH) activity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in severaldiseases, including asthma; coronary artery disease (multiple); dementia;diabetes mellitus (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic process and farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process,mevalonate pathway. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to beactive in cytosol.
HOMER2: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled glutamate receptor binding activity.Involved in negative regulation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade; negativeregulation of interleukin-2 production; and sensory perception of sound. Locatedin cytosol. Implicated in autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness 68.
HPGD: Enables several functions, including 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase(NAD+) activity; NAD+ binding activity; and prostaglandin E receptor activity.Involved in several processes, including parturition; prostaglandin metabolicprocess; and regulation of prostaglandin catabolic process. Located in cytosoland nucleoplasm. Implicated in colon carcinoma and primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy.Biomarker of growth hormone secreting pituitary adenoma; inflammatory boweldisease; prolactinoma; and pulmonary hypertension.
HSD17B14: Enables estradiol 17-beta-dehydrogenase [NAD(P)] activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and testosterone 17-beta-dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity.Involved in steroid catabolic process. Located in cytosol.
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and manganese ion binding activity. Involved in isoprenoidbiosynthetic process. Located in peroxisome.
INPP4B: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity; phosphatidylinositol trisphosphatephosphatase activity; and phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate 4-phosphataseactivity. Predicted to be involved in inositol phosphate metabolic process;phosphatidylinositol biosynthetic process; and signal transduction. Predictedto act upstream of or within several processes, including negative regulationof osteoclast differentiation; phosphatidylinositol dephosphorylation; andregulation of protein kinase B signaling. Predicted to be located in Golgiapparatus. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm.
INSIG1: Enables oxysterol binding activity. Involved in several processes,including SREBP signaling pathway; SREBP-SCAP complex retention in endoplasmicreticulum; and negative regulation of intracellular transport. Located inendoplasmic reticulum. Part of SREBP-SCAP-Insig complex.
IQGAP2: Enables several functions, including Arp2/3 complex binding activity;calmodulin binding activity; and phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity. Involved in Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation; regulationof actin cytoskeleton reorganization; and thrombin-activated receptor signalingpathway. Located in several cellular components, including filopodium; lamellipodium;and microtubule.
ITGAV: Enables several functions, including extracellular matrix protein bindingactivity; fibronectin binding activity; and integrin binding activity. Contributesto C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; negativeregulation of lipid localization; and regulation of signal transduction. Actsupstream of or within negative regulation of low-density lipoprotein receptoractivity. Located in several cellular components, including cell projectionmembrane; cell surface; and focal adhesion. Part of alphav-beta3 integrin-HMGB1complex; alphav-beta3 integrin-IGF-1-IGF1R complex; and integrin complex.Implicated in abdominal aortic aneurysm and acute myeloid leukemia. Biomarkerof hyperglycemia.
KLK2: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure and zymogen activation.Located in extracellular exosome.
KLK3: Enables hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide)bonds, in linear amides and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved inpositive regulation of antibacterial peptide production and proteolysis. Locatedin extracellular space. Part of protein-containing complex. Biomarker of breastcancer.
KRT19: A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in response to estrogenand sarcomere organization. Located in cell periphery and costamere. Partof plasma membrane.
KRT8: Enables scaffold protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin intermediate filament organization; keratinization; and sarcomere organization.Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including cell differentiationinvolved in embryonic placenta development; cell surface receptor signalingpathway; and hepatocyte apoptotic process. Located in cytoplasm and keratinfilament. Implicated in liver cirrhosis. Biomarker of liver cirrhosis.
LIFR: Enables ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding activity and growthfactor binding activity. Contributes to leukemia inhibitory factor receptoractivity and oncostatin-M receptor activity. Involved in ciliary neurotrophicfactor-mediated signaling pathway; leukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathway;and oncostatin-M-mediated signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within cytokine-mediatedsignaling pathway and positive regulation of cell population proliferation.Located in extracellular exosome. Part of receptor complex. Implicated inosteochondrodysplasia.
LMAN1: Enables metal ion binding activity. Involved in Golgi organization;positive regulation of organelle organization; and sequestering of metal ion.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediatecompartment. Part of collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicatedin factor V deficiency and factor XIII deficiency.
MAF: Enables identical protein binding activity and sequence-specific double-strandedDNA binding activity. Involved in megakaryocyte differentiation. Located inRNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex. Implicated in Ayme-Grippsyndrome; cataract; and cataract 21 multiple types.
MAK: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in protein autophosphorylation.Located in several cellular components, including microtubule cytoskeleton;midbody; and photoreceptor inner segment. Implicated in retinitis pigmentosa62.
MAP7: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in microtubule cytoskeleton organization; protein localizationto plasma membrane; and response to osmotic stress. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including glycosphingolipid metabolic process;male gonad development; and response to retinoic acid. Located in cytosoland microtubule cytoskeleton.
MERTK: Predicted to enable transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinaseactivity. Involved in negative regulation of leukocyte apoptotic process;phagocytosis; and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in cytoplasmand extracellular space. Implicated in retinitis pigmentosa 38.
MYL12A: Predicted to enable myosin heavy chain binding activity. Involvedin platelet aggregation. Located in cell cortex.
NCOA4: Predicted to enable transcription coactivator activity. Acts upstreamof or within protein targeting to lysosome. Located in autolysosome. Biomarkerof invasive ductal carcinoma; ovarian carcinoma; polycystic ovary syndrome;and prostate cancer.
NDRG1: Enables cadherin binding activity; small GTPase binding activity; andtubulin binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response, signal transductionby p53 class mediator and cellular response to hypoxia. Located in severalcellular components, including adherens junction; microtubule cytoskeleton;and recycling endosome membrane. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth diseasetype 4D.
NGLY1: Enables peptide-N4-(N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminyl)asparagine amidase activity.Involved in glycoprotein catabolic process and protein deglycosylation. Locatedin cytoplasm. Implicated in NGLY1-deficiency.
NKX3-1: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase activatoractivity involved in apoptotic process; histone deacetylase binding activity;and nuclear estrogen receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positive regulation of cellcommunication; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process.Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and site of DNA damage. Implicated in hepatocellularcarcinoma. Biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma.
PA2G4: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; transcription corepressor activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Acts upstream of or withinnegative regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cytoplasm andnucleolus.
PDLIM5: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion.Predicted to be involved in actin cytoskeleton organization; cell growth involvedin cardiac muscle cell development; and regulation of synapse organization.Located in actin cytoskeleton and cytoplasm.
PGM3: Enables phosphoacetylglucosamine mutase activity. Involved in UDP-N-acetylglucosaminebiosynthetic process; protein N-linked glycosylation; and protein O-linkedglycosylation. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Implicated in immunodeficiency23 and teratoma. Biomarker of cervical cancer.
PIAS1: Enables SUMO ligase activity and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin positive regulation of protein sumoylation and protein sumoylation. Locatedin nucleus.
PLPP1: Enables ceramide-1-phosphate phosphatase activity; phosphatidate phosphataseactivity; and sphingosine-1-phosphate phosphatase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including phospholipid dephosphorylation; phospholipid metabolicprocess; and sphingolipid metabolic process. Located in apical plasma membraneand membrane raft.
PMEPA1: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and WW domain binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of SMAD protein complex assembly; negative regulationof pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation; and negative regulationof transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway. Located inGolgi membrane and early endosome membrane. Biomarker of breast cancer; gastricadenocarcinoma; prostate cancer; rectal benign neoplasm; and renal cell carcinoma.
PTK2B: Enables non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity andprotein self-association. Involved in several processes, including cell surfacereceptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of cellular component organization;and positive regulation of signal transduction. Located in several cellularcomponents, including focal adhesion; lamellipodium; and perinuclear regionof cytoplasm. Implicated in breast cancer and hypertension. Biomarker of glomerulonephritisand prostate cancer.
PTPN21: Predicted to enable protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Predictedto be involved in protein dephosphorylation. Predicted to be located in cytoskeleton.Predicted to be active in cytoplasm.
RAB4A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation. Located in extracellularexosome and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
RPS6KA3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved inapoptotic process. Involved in negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity involved in apoptotic process and positive regulation of transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Implicatedin Coffin-Lowry syndrome; intellectual disability; and non-syndromic X-linkedintellectual disability 19.
RRP12: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA processing.Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and plasma membrane.
SAT1: Enables diamine N-acetyltransferase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in angiogenesis; polyamine biosynthetic process; and spermidineacetylation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and membrane. Predictedto be active in cytosol.
SCD: Enables iron ion binding activity and stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity.Involved in unsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmicreticulum membrane and nucleolus.
SEC24D: Enables SNARE binding activity and zinc ion binding activity. Involvedin COPII-coated vesicle cargo loading. Located in intracellular membrane-boundedorganelle. Part of COPII vesicle coat. Implicated in Cole-Carpenter syndrome.
SELENOP: Predicted to enable selenium binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin selenium compound metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or withinseveral processes, including brain development; locomotory behavior; and regulationof growth. Located in extracellular exosome. Biomarker of colorectal adenomaand colorectal carcinoma.
SGK1: Enables protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Predictedto be involved in intracellular signal transduction; neuron projection morphogenesis;and peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream of or withinseveral processes, including cellular response to hormone stimulus; positiveregulation of sodium ion transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located incytosol and nuclear speck. Implicated in hypertension. Biomarker of granulosacell tumor; mucinous cystadenocarcinoma; and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
SLC26A2: Enables sulfate transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in sulfatetransmembrane transport. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in bone disease(multiple).
SLC38A2: Enables neutral L-amino acid:sodium symporter activity. Involvedin several processes, including amino acid transport; cellular response toarsenite(3-); and positive regulation of RNA splicing. Located in cytoplasmand plasma membrane.
SMS: Predicted to enable spermine synthase activity. Predicted to be involvedin spermine biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within sperminemetabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in syndromicX-linked intellectual disability Snyder type.
SORD: Enables several functions, including L-iditol 2-dehydrogenase activity;NAD binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in L-xylitolcatabolic process; fructose biosynthetic process; and sorbitol catabolic process.Located in extracellular exosome and membrane.
SPCS3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Involved in signal peptideprocessing and viral protein processing. Located in signal peptidase complex.
SPDEF: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II and positiveregulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to be part of chromatin. Predictedto be active in nucleus. Biomarker of ovarian cancer.
SRF: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; protein homodimerization activity; andserum response element binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcirculatory system development; negative regulation of amyloid-beta clearance;and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Acts upstream of or withinpositive regulation of cell differentiation; positive regulation of transcriptionby RNA polymerase II; and trophectodermal cell differentiation. Located innucleus. Implicated in cardiomyopathy and lymphangioleiomyomatosis. Biomarkerof congestive heart failure and lymphangioleiomyomatosis.
SRP19: Enables 7S RNA binding activity. Contributes to ribosome binding activity.Predicted to be involved in SRP-dependent cotranslational protein targetingto membrane, signal sequence recognition. Located in cytosol; nuclear body;and nucleolus. Part of signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulumtargeting.
STEAP4: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; ferric-chelatereductase (NADPH) activity; and heme binding activity. Involved in proteinhomotrimerization. Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane.
STK39: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of transporter activity; positiveregulation of T cell chemotaxis; and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytosoland nucleoplasm.
TMEM50A: Predicted to be involved in late endosome to vacuole transport viamultivesicular body sorting pathway. Located in endoplasmic reticulum.
TMPRSS2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involvedin positive regulation of viral entry into host cell and protein autoprocessing.Located in nucleoplasm and plasma membrane.
TNFAIP8: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved inapoptotic process. Involved in positive regulation of apoptotic process. Locatedin cytoplasm and nucleoplasm.
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in B cell differentiation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and perinuclearregion of cytoplasm.
TSC22D1: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription activator activity,RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of apoptoticprocess; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positiveregulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstreamof or within positive regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to be locatedin cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in cytosol and nucleus.
UAP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin UDP-N-acetylglucosamine biosynthetic process. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm;and plasma membrane.
UBE2I: Enables several functions, including RING-like zinc finger domain bindingactivity; SUMO conjugating enzyme activity; and small protein activating enzymebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; positive regulation of SUMO transferaseactivity; and protein sumoylation. Located in PML body; SUMO ligase complex;and cytoplasm. Part of transferase complex. Biomarker of dilated cardiomyopathy;ovarian cancer; and urinary bladder cancer.
UBE2J1: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of retrograde proteintransport, ER to cytosol and protein N-linked glycosylation via asparagine.Acts upstream of or within ubiquitin-dependent ERAD pathway. Predicted tobe located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Predicted to be active in nucleus.
VAPA: Enables FFAT motif binding activity; microtubule binding activity; andprotein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includinglipid transport; modulation by host of viral genome replication; and sphingomyelinbiosynthetic process. Located in several cellular components, including Golgimembrane; endoplasmic reticulum membrane; and vesicle. Colocalizes with bicellulartight junction and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.
XRCC5: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; nucleicacid binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributesto 5''-deoxyribose-5-phosphate lyase activity; DNA end binding activity; anddouble-stranded telomeric DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to gamma radiation; regulation of nucleobase-containingcompound metabolic process; and small-subunit processome assembly. Locatedin chromosome; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of several cellular components,including Ku70:Ku80 complex; nonhomologous end joining complex; and small-subunitprocessome. Implicated in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; multiplemyeloma; and rectum cancer. Biomarker of basal cell carcinoma and squamouscell carcinoma.
XRCC6: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; catalyticactivity, acting on DNA; and cyclin binding activity. Contributes to DNA endbinding activity and double-stranded telomeric DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to gamma radiation; double-strandbreak repair via classical nonhomologous end joining; and regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription. Located in DNA-dependent protein kinase complex; nucleolus;and nucleoplasm. Part of several cellular components, including Ku70:Ku80complex; nonhomologous end joining complex; and transcription regulator complex.Biomarker of basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma.
ZBTB10: Enables telomeric DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved innegative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromosome,telomeric region and nucleoplasm.
ZMIZ1: Enables SMAD binding activity and transcription coactivator activity.Involved in several processes, including androgen receptor signaling pathway;pyramidal neuron migration to cerebral cortex; and transmembrane receptorprotein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Located in cytosol andnucleoplasm.
////
ABCB1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATPase-coupled intramembrane lipid transporter activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including lipid translocation; regulation of monoatomic anion transport; and xenobiotic detoxification by transmembrane export across the plasma membrane. Located in apical plasma membrane; cell surface; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); carcinoma (multiple); human immunodeficiency virus infectious disease (multiple); inflammatory bowel disease (multiple); and leukemia (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including f...
ABCB4: Enables ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activity and phosphatidylcholine floppase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to bile acid; positive regulation of cholesterol transport; and regulation of membrane lipid distribution. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; focal adhesion; and nucleoplas...
ABCB9: Enables ABC-type oligopeptide transporter activity; ATP binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in peptide metabolic process and peptide transport. Located in endopl...
ABCC5: Enables several functions, including ABC-type xenobiotic transporter activity; glutathione transmembrane transporter activity; and heme transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, including heme transmembrane transport; organic anion transport; and xenobiotic transport. Located in apical p...
ABCC8: Enables ATPase-coupled monoatomic cation transmembrane transporter activity; potassium channel activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Predicted to be involved in inorganic cation transmembrane transport. Part of inward rectifying potassium channel. I...
ABCD1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type fatty-acyl-CoA transporter activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including fatty acid catabolic process; long-chain fatty acid import into peroxisome; and very long-chain fatty-acyl-CoA catabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including bounding membrane of organe...
ABCD2: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; acyl-CoA hydrolase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation; positive regulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation; and very long...
ABCD3: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in fatty acid metabolic process; long-chain fatty acid import into peroxisome; and peroxisome organization. Located in peroxisomal matrix and peroxisomal membrane. Im...
ACAA1: Enables acetate CoA-transferase activity and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Involved in bile acid metabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation; and very long-chain fatty acid metabolic proces...
ACOT8: Enables medium-chain acyl-CoA hydrolase activity and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, including acyl-CoA metabolic process; negative regulation of CD4 production; and ...
ACOX1: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; PDZ domain binding activity; and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; fatty acid metabolic process; and hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process. Located in membrane. Is act...
ACSL1: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in lipid biosynthetic process; long-chain fatty acid import into cell; and long-chain fatty acid metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic ...
ACSL4: Enables arachidonate-CoA ligase activity and very long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including long-chain fatty acid metabolic process; negative regulation of prostaglandin secretion; and positive regulation of cell growth. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum; lipid droplet; and mitochondria-associated endoplasmic reticulum m...
ACSL5: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in long-chain fatty acid metabolic process and regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. Located in several cellular components, including en...
ALB: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and toxic substance binding activity. Contributes to oxygen binding activity. Involved in cellular response to starvation; maintenance of mitochondrion location; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and extracellular exosome. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including blood protein disease; hepatobiliary system cancer (multiple); hyperthyroxinemia; middle cerebral artery infarction; and psoriasis. Biomarker of several...
ALDH1A1: Enables 3-deoxyglucosone dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellular detoxification of aldehyde and fructosamine catabolic process. Located in cyt...
ALDH9A1: Enables 4-trimethylammoniobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity; aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity; and small molecule binding activity. Involved in cellular aldehyde metabolic process; neurotransmitter biosynthetic process; and pr...
ATXN1: Enables identical protein binding activity; protein self-association; and single-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription and nuclear export. Located in cytosol; nuclear inclusion body; an...
BCL10: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity; NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of immune response; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic microtubule; lysosome; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of CBM complex. Implicated in extranodal m...
CACNA1B: Enables high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Involved in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission and response to amyloid-beta. Predicted to be located in dendrite. Predicted to be part of voltage-gated calcium channel complex. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and presynaptic active zone....
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell recognition; positive regulation of cytokine production; and susceptibility to natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in breast carcino...
CAT: Enables several functions, including catalase activity; heme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including UV protection; cellular detoxification of hydrogen peroxide; and hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in catalase complex and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of protein-containing complex. Is active in peroxisome. Implicated in several diseases, including acatalasia; eye disease (multiple); lung disease (multiple); osteonecrosis; and pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Biomarker of several ...
CDK7: Enables ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA and RNA polymerase II CTD heptapeptide repeat kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including protein stabilization; regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; and transcription initiation at RNA polymerase II promoter. Located in cytosol; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of CAK-ERCC2 complex; transcription ...
CEL: Predicted to enable carboxylic ester hydrolase activity; neurexin family protein binding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Involved in cholesterol catabolic process; intestinal cholesterol absorption; and pancreatic juice secretion. Located in Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in lipomatosis; maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 8; t...
CLN6: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and sulfatide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol metabolic process; ganglioside metabolic process; and lysosomal lumen acidification. Located in several cellular components, including early endosome; endoplasmic reticulum lumen; and membrane raft. Implicated in neurona...
CLN8: Enables ceramide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ceramide metabolic process; cholesterol metabolic process; and phospholipid metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment. Implicated in neuronal ceroid lipof...
CNBP: Enables G-quadruplex DNA binding activity. Involved in G-quadruplex DNA formation and negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to be located in cytosol; endoplasmic reticulum; and nucleus. Predicted to be ac...
CRABP1: Predicted to enable fatty acid binding activity and retinoic acid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in fatty acid transport. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Pr...
CRABP2: Enables cyclin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in fatty acid transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within embryonic forelimb morphogenesis; positive regulation of collateral sprouting; and retinoic acid...
CRAT: Enables acyl-CoA oxidase activity and carnitine O-acetyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process, CoA-linked and fatty acid metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion and peroxisome. Implica...
CTBP1: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; transcription corepressor activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of cell cycle; and regulation of histone modific...
CTPS1: Enables CTP synthase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in B cell proliferation; CTP biosynthetic process; and T cell proliferation. Located in cytoophidium. Implicated in immunodefici...
DHCR24: Enables enzyme binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and peptide antigen binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol biosynthetic process via desmosterol; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; and response to oxidative stress. Acts upstream of or within cholesterol bio...
DHRS3: Predicted to enable NAD-retinol dehydrogenase activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway and retinoid metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including heart morphogenesis; negative regulation of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of ossification. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic r...
DIO1: Predicted to enable thyroxine 5'-deiodinase activity. Involved in amino acid metabolic process. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. ...
DLG4: Enables kinase binding activity. Involved in establishment of protein localization; protein localization to synapse; and protein-containing complex assembly. Located in cortical cytoskeleton and postsynaptic membrane. Implicated in autosomal dominant intel...
ECH1: Predicted to enable delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase activity. Predicted to be involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in ...
ECI2: Enables delta(3)-delta(2)-enoyl-CoA isomerase activity. Involved in fatty acid catabolic process. Located in mitocho...
EHHADH: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity; enzyme binding activity; and long-chain-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in peroxisome....
ELOVL5: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid biosynthetic process and positive regulation of fatty acid biosynthetic process. Located in dendritic tree; endoplasmic reticulum; and neuronal cel...
EPHX2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity; phosphatase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; phospholipid dephosphorylation; and stilbene catabolic process. Located in cytosol and peroxisome. Implicated...
ERCC1: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to 3' overhang single-stranded DNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity and DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of protection from non-homologous end joining at telomere; and response to oxidative stress. Acts upstream of or within DNA recombination and nucleotide-excision repair. Located in chromosome, telomeric region and nucleoplasm. Part of ERCC4-ERCC1 complex and nucleotide-excision repair factor 1 complex. Implicated in several diseases, including azoospermia; carcinoma (multiple); cerebrooculofacioskeletal syndrome 4; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); and hematolo...
ERCC3: Enables 3'-5' DNA helicase activity and ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in several processes, including hair cell differentiation; nucleic acid metabolic process; and response to UV. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of transcription factor TFIID complex; transcription factor TFIIH core complex; and transcription factor TFIIH holo complex. Implicated in lung non-small cell carcinoma; photosensitive trichothiodystrophy 2; trichothiodystrophy; xeroderma pigm...
ESR2: Enables several functions, including estrogen response element binding activity; nuclear estrogen receptor activity; and nuclear receptor activity. Involved in cellular response to lipid and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in mitochondrion and nucleoplasm. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); bone disease (multiple); hypospadias; and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, inclu...
FABP6: Predicted to enable fatty acid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in fatty acid transport. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted...
FADS1: Enables acyl-CoA delta5-desaturase activity and linoleoyl-CoA desaturase activity. Involved in cellular response to starvation. Acts upstream of or within long-chain fatty acid biosynthetic process and unsaturated...
FDPS: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process. Located in cytosol and nucleopl...
FIS1: Enables identical protein binding activity; lipid binding activity; and molecular adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling using intracellular calcium source; intracellular calcium ion homeostasis; and mitochondrion organization. Acts upstream of or within mitochondrion morphogenesis. Located in mitochondrial outer membrane a...
GNPAT: Enables glycerone-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Involved in ether lipid biosynthetic process. Located in peroxisome. Implicated in rhizome...
GSTK1: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity and glutathione transferase activity. Involved in epithelial cell differenti...
HAO2: Enables (S)-2-hydroxy-acid oxidase activity. Involved in fatty acid oxidation. Located ...
HMGCL: Enables hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA lyase activity; metal ion binding activity; and structural molecule activity. Involved in ketone body biosynthetic process. Located in mitochondrion and peroxisome. Part of protein-containi...
HRAS: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of MAPK cascade; regulation of GTPase activity; and regulation of protein localization to membrane. Located in several cellular components, including GTPase complex; Golgi apparatus; and nucleoplasm. Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in several diseases, including Costello syndrome; autistic disorder; carcinoma (multiple); epidermal nevus; and large congenital melanocytic ...
HSD11B2: Enables 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in cortisol metabolic process. Located in lipid droplet and nucleoplasm. Implicated in apparent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome; hypertension; inherited metabolic disorder; obesity; and type 1 diabetes mellit...
HSD17B11: Enables steroid dehydrogenase activity. Involved in androgen catabolic process. Located in cyto...
HSD17B4: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including androgen metabolic process; estrogen metabolic process; and fatty-acyl-CoA metabolic process. Located in peroxisome. Implicated...
HSD3B7: Predicted to enable cholest-5-ene-3-beta,7-alpha-diol 3-beta-dehydrogenase activity. Predicted to be involved in B cell chemotaxis. Located in lipid droplet. Implicated in congenital bile acid...
IDE: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; insulin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; bradykinin catabolic process; and protein catabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; external side of plasma membrane; and peroxisome....
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol and peroxisome. Implicated in autoimmune disease; hematologic cancer (multiple); hepatocellular clear cell carcinoma; and high gra...
IDH2: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity. Predicted to be involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process; NADP metabolic process; and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria 2; acute myeloid leukemia; carcinoma (multiple); and lung cancer (multiple). Biomarker of hepatocell...
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and manganese ion binding activity. Involved in isoprenoid biosy...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in peroxisome. Predicted to be activ...
ITGB1BP1: Enables GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity and integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell-substrate adhesion; regulation of endothelial cell migration; and regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in several cellular ...
LONP2: Enables peptidase activity and protease binding activity. Involved in protein processing; protein targeting to peroxisome; and regulation of fatty acid ...
MLYCD: Enables identical protein binding activity and malonyl-CoA decarboxylase activity. Involved in several processes, including acyl-CoA metabolic process; positive regulation of fatty acid oxidation; and regulation of glucose metabolic process. Located...
MSH2: Enables several functions, including chromatin binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Contributes to several functions, including DNA binding activity; MutLalpha complex binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of DNA recombination; and positive regulation of helicase activity. Acts upstream of or within mismatch repair. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of MutSalpha complex and MutSbeta complex. Implicated in several diseases, including Lynch syndrome (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple); mismatch repair cancer syndro...
MVP: Enables identical protein binding activity; protein kinase binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in ERBB signaling pathway; negative regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway; and negative regulation of protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cytoskelet...
NR1I2: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and nuclear receptor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; xenobiotic catabolic process; and xenobiotic transport. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of DNA-templated transcrip...
NUDT19: Predicted to enable magnesium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in purine nucleoside bisphosphate metabolic process. Predicted to be loca...
PABPC1: Enables mRNA 3'-UTR binding activity; poly(A) binding activity; and poly(U) RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of mRNA catabolic process; positive regulation of cytoplasmic translation; and positive regulation of viral genome replication. Located in several cellular components, including cell leading edge; cytoplasmic stress g...
PEX11A: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in peroxisome fission; regulation of peroxisome size; and signal transduction. Located in peroxisomal membr...
PEX11B: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in peroxisome fission and regulation of peroxisome size. Located in nucleoplasm and peroxisomal membrane. Part of protein-containing complex...
PEX13: Enables protein transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix, docking. Located in peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in peroxisomal biogenesis di...
PEX14: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; transcription corepressor activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including peroxisome transport along microtubule; protein import into peroxisome matrix; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in fibrillar center and peroxisomal membra...
PEX2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including fatty acid metabolic process; negative regulation of cell population proliferation; and pexophagy. Located in peroxisomal membrane. Part of Cdc73/Paf1 complex. Implicated in pero...
PEX5: Enables several functions, including peroxisome targeting sequence binding activity; protein sequestering activity; and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including pexophagy; protein targeting to peroxisome; and protein tetramerization. Located in Golgi apparatus; membrane; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Is active in cytosol and peroxisomal matrix. Implicated in peroxisome ...
PEX6: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix; protein stabilization; and protein unfolding. Located in cytosol; peroxisome; and photoreceptor cell cilium. Is active in peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in Heim...
PRDX1: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in natural killer cell activation. Acts upstream of or within hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in me...
PRDX5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity; and peroxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including NADPH oxidation; positive regulation of collagen biosynthetic process; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including mi...
RDH11: Enables NADP-retinol dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellular detoxification of aldehyde and retinoid metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within retinal metabolic proces...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in retinol metabolic p...
RXRG: Enables molecular condensate scaffold activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; response to retinoic acid; and retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within DNA-templated transcription; intracellular receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be part of RNA po...
SCGB1A1: Predicted to enable phospholipase A2 inhibitor activity and polychlorinated biphenyl binding activity. Predicted to be involved in embryo implantation. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of T cell proliferation; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of inflammatory response. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in IgA glomerulonephritis; asthma; ...
SCP2: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; cholesterol binding activity; and lipid transfer activity. Involved in several processes, including inositol trisphosphate biosynthetic process; lipid transport; and progesterone biosynthetic process. Located in nucleoplasm and peroxi...
SEMA3C: Predicted to enable chemorepellent activity and semaphorin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of axon extension involved in axon guidance; outflow tract septum morphogenesis; and positive regulation of cardiac neural crest cell migration involved in outflow tract morphogenesis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including blood vessel remodeling; dichotomous subdivision of terminal units involv...
SERPINA6: Enables steroid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within glucocorticoid metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Im...
SIAH1: Enables identical protein binding activity; ubiquitin protein ligase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in canonical Wnt signaling pathway; positive regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway; and proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Acts upstream of or within ubiquit...
SLC23A2: Enables L-ascorbate:sodium symporter activity and L-ascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in L-ascorbic acid transmembrane transport. Located in apical pla...
SLC25A17: Enables nucleotide transmembrane transporter activity and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in ATP transport; fatty acid beta-oxidation; and fatty acid ...
SLC25A19: Enables thiamine pyrophosphate transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in thiamine pyrophosphate transmembrane transport. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in inh...
SLC25A4: Enables ATP:ADP antiporter activity. Involved in mitochondrial ADP transmembrane transport; mitochondrial ATP transmembrane transport; and negative regulation of necroptotic process. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Implicated in intrinsic cardiomyopathy (multiple); mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (multiple); and mitochondrial myopathy ...
SLC27A2: Enables CoA-ligase activity; enzyme binding activity; and long-chain fatty acid transporter activity. Involved in monocarboxylic acid metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen; endopla...
SLC35B2: Enables 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate transport. Loc...
SMARCC1: Contributes to nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Involved in nucleosome disassembly and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Part of SWI/SNF complex. Biomarker of colorectal cancer; colorectal ...
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxide dismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negative regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation. Located in several cellular components, including dendrite cytoplasm; neuronal cell body; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including Down syndrome; artery disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple); glucose metabolism disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple). B...
SOD2: Enables identical protein binding activity; manganese ion binding activity; and superoxide dismutase activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular oxygen homeostasis; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in mitochondrial matrix. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); lipid storage disease (multiple); liver disease (multiple); and optic nerve disease (multiple). Biomarker ...
STS: Enables sulfuric ester hydrolase activity. Predicted to be involved in epidermis development and steroid catabolic process. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic ret...
SULT2B1: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; steroid binding activity; and steroid sulfotransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate metabolic process; cholesterol metabolic process; and positive regulation of epidermal cell differentiation. Located in cytosol and intracellular mem...
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation; and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA replication via double stranded DNA intermediate. Located in cytoplasm; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of DNA topoisomerase type II (double strand cut, ATP-hydrolyzing) complex and ribonucleoprotein complex. Colocalizes with centriole and nuclear chromosome. Biomarker ...
TSPO: Predicted to enable cholesterol binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including C21-steroid hormone biosynthetic process; heme biosynthetic process; and protein targeting to m...
TTR: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in purine nucleobase metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; amyloidosis; carpal tunnel syndrome; dystransthyretinemic hyperthyroxinemia; and transthyretin amyloidosis. Biomarker of colorectal a...
UGT2B17: Enables glucuronosyltransferase activity. Involved in cellular glucuronidation and estrogen metabolic process. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in intracellular membra...
VPS4B: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process; regulation of cell cycle process; and regulation of exosomal secretion. Acts upstream of or within endosomal transport. Located in several cellular compo...
YWHAH: Enables several functions, including nuclear glucocorticoid receptor binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including glucocorticoid catabolic process; glucocorticoid receptor signaling pathway; and regulation ...
////
ACACA: Enables acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity and identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in acetyl-CoA metabolic process; fatty acid biosynthetic process; and protein homotetramerization. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includin...
ACTR2: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filament binding activity. Involved in Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation; positive regulation of lamellipodium assembly; and positive regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream ...
ACTR3: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filament binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation; positive regulation of lamellipodium assembly; and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytoplasm; lamell...
ADCY2: Predicted to enable adenylate cyclase activity; adenylate cyclase binding activity; and metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cAMP biosynthetic pr...
AKT1: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; anion binding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within activation-induced cell death of T cells; intracellular signal transduction; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; microtubule cytoskeleton; and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including Cowd...
AKT1S1: Involved in negative regulation of TOR signaling; negative regulation of cell size; and negative regulation of protein ...
AP2M1: Enables signal sequence binding activity and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including endocytosis; negative regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; and regulation of vesicle siz...
ARF1: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in cellular response to virus and intracellular copper ion homeostasis. Located in cell leading edg...
ARHGDIA: Predicted to enable Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. Involved in regulation of Rho protein signal transduction and regulation of actin cytoskeleton r...
ARPC3: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filament binding activity. Involved in Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation. Locat...
ATF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in cAMP-mediated signaling; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase I...
CAB39: Enables kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in intracellular signal transduction; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and positive regulation of protein phosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm and se...
CAB39L: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in intracel...
CALR: Enables several functions, including integrin binding activity; nuclear androgen receptor binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; negative regulation of signal transduction; and regulation of cell migration. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum lumen; nuclear envelope; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of MHC class I peptide loading complex and polysome. Implicated in several diseases, i...
CAMK4: Enables calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. Involved in long-term memory; myeloid dendritic cell differentiation; and positive regula...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled electron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cyclin B1-CDK1 complex; microtubule cytoskeleton; and midbody. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme com...
CDK2: Enables cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Contributes to histone kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including centriole replication; positive regulation of heterochromatin formation; and protein modificat...
CDK4: Enables cyclin binding activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle; and positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including chromatin; cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex; and nucleus. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex. Implicated in several diseases, including car...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein kinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle and positive regulation of protein kinase activity. Located in nuclear body and nucleolus. Part of PCNA-p21 complex and cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzy...
CDKN1B: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of cell cycle G1/S phase transition. Acts upstream of or within cellular response to lithium ion and positive regulation of protein catabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Part of Cul4A-RING E3 ubiquitin li...
CFL1: Enables actin filament binding activity. Involved in several processes, including actin filament depolymerization; positive regulation by host of viral process; and regulation of dendritic spine mo...
CLTC: Enables several functions, including clathrin light chain binding activity; disordered domain specific binding activity; and low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; negative regulation of hyaluronan biosynthetic process; and receptor-mediated endocytosis. Acts upstream of or within...
CSNK2B: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; chromatin binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including adiponectin-activated signaling pathway; negative regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration; and positive regulation of transmembrane r...
CXCR4: Enables several functions, including C-X-C motif chemokine 12 receptor activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including CXCL12-activated CXCR4 signaling pathway; positive regulation of macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling pathway; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or within calcium-mediated signaling. Located in several cellular components, including cell leading edge; cell surface; and late endosome. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with early endosome and lysosome. Implicated in several dis...
DAPP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity. Pre...
DDIT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within cell redox homeostasis; negative regulation of NF-kappaB t...
DUSP3: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; phosphoprotein phosphatase activity; and receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to epidermal growth factor stimulus; negative regulation ...
E2F1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity; DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage; regulation of RNA metabolic process; and regulation of cell cycle phase transition. Located in centrosome; chromatin; and nucleus. Part of Rb-E2F complex. Is active in nucleus. Impl...
ECSIT: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding activity. Involved in regulation of oxidoreductase activity and regul...
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributes to nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; endosome; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Is active in ruffle membrane...
EIF4E: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; eukaryotic initiation factor 4G binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle; and regulation of translation. Located in cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granul...
FASLG: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including necroptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation of endothelial cell apoptotic process; and positive regulation of phosphatidylserine exposure on apoptotic cell surface. Acts upstream of or within extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol by endoplasmic reticulum. Located in extracellular exosome; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases...
FGF17: Enables type 1 fibroblast growth factor receptor binding activity and type 2 fibroblast growth factor receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabol...
FGF22: Predicted to enable fibroblast growth factor receptor binding activity and growth factor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positive ...
FGF6: Predicted to enable fibroblast growth factor receptor binding activity and growth factor activity. Acts upstream of or within fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Predicted t...
GNA14: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor binding activity; G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity; and GTPase activity. Predicted to be involved in action potential; adenylate cyclase-modulating G protein-couple...
GNGT1: Predicted to enable G-protein beta-subunit binding activity. Predicted to be involved in G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including cardiac muscle cell apoptotic process; cellular response t...
GRB2: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; insulin receptor substrate binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ionizing radiation; signal transduction in response to DNA damage; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within actin cytoskeleton...
GRK2: Enables Edg-2 lysophosphatidic acid receptor binding activity and G protein-coupled receptor kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of the force of heart contraction by chemical signal; regulation of muscle system process; and tachykinin receptor signaling pathwa...
GSK3B: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein phosphorylation; and regulation of neuron death. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including ER overload response; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and positive regulation of protein export from nucleus. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Part of beta-ca...
HRAS: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of MAPK cascade; regulation of GTPase activity; and regulation of protein localization to membrane. Located in several cellular components, including GTPase complex; Golgi apparatus; and nucleoplasm. Is active in glutamatergic synapse. Implicated in several diseases, including Coste...
HSP90B1: Enables RNA binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in ERAD pathway; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or within actin rod assembly; cellular response to ATP; and regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase act...
IL2RG: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signaling pathway and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in cell surface. Implicated in X-linked severe combined immuno...
IL4: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus; negative regulation of complement-dependent cytotoxicity; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell migration and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Predicted to be located in external side of plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Implicated in sever...
IRAK4: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in neutrophil mediated immunity and neutrophil migration. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. Predicted to be located...
ITPR2: Enables scaffold protein binding activity and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in response to hypoxia. Located in nucleoplasm; plasma membrane; and sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane. Par...
LCK: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; peptidyl-tyrosine autophosphorylat...
MAP2K3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of hippo signaling; p38MAPK cascade; and positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process. Located in membrane. Implicated in cervical can...
MAP2K6: Enables MAP kinase kinase activity; identical protein binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in stress-activated MAPK cascade. Located in nucleoplasm. Is active in cytosol. Implicated in Pick's disease; cervica...
MAP3K7: Enables several functions, including protein serine/threonine kinase activity; receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity; and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling; and positive regulation of macromolecu...
MAPK1: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphatase binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including MAPK cascade; cellular response to amino acid starvation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in Noonan syndrome 13; adenocarcinoma (multiple); pulmonary ...
MAPK10: Predicted to enable JUN kinase activity. Involved in protein phosphorylation. Predicted to be located in mitochondrion; plasma membrane; and postsynaptic density. Predicted to be active in glutamatergic synapse...
MAPK8: Enables JUN kinase activity; enzyme binding activity; and histone deacetylase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to mechanical stimulus; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including JUN phosphorylation; cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; and response to UV. Located in nucleus. Implicated in abdo...
MAPK9: Enables JUN kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including JNK cascade; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and positive regulation of macrophage derived foam cell differentiation. Located in cytosol; nuclear speck; and plasma ...
MAPKAP1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of Ras protein signal transduct...
MKNK1: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in intracellular signal transdu...
MKNK2: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to arsenic-containing substan...
MYD88: Enables TIR domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and protein self-association. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to mechanical stimulus; defense response to other organism; and positive regulation of gene expression. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Implicated in colorectal cancer (multiple); hepatocellular carcinoma; lung cancer ...
NCK1: Enables several functions, including eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 binding activity; molecular condensate scaffold activity; and receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including peptidyl-serine dephosphorylation; regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; and regulation of ...
NFKBIB: Predicted to enable transcription coactivator activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; cytoplasmic sequestering of NF-kappaB; and signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within inflammatory respons...
NGF: Enables peptidase regulator activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors; neuron apoptotic process; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within neuron projection morphogenesis. Predicted to be located in Golgi lumen; cytosol; and extracellular region. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including axon; dendrite; and synaptic vesicle. Implicated in IgA glomerulon...
NOD1: Enables CARD domain binding activity; pattern recognition receptor activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to muramyl dipeptide; regulation of gene expression; and response to bacterium. Acts upstream of or within activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity i...
PAK4: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in negative regulation of endothelial cell apoptotic process and positive regulation of angiogenesis. Lo...
PDK1: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha signaling pathway; intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to oxidative stress; and regulation of glucose metabolic process. P...
PFN1: Enables several functions, including actin monomer binding activity; adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ruffle assembly; protein stabilization; and reg...
PIK3R3: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and protein kinase B signaling. Predicted to be located in cytoso...
PIKFYVE: Enables 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase activity and 1-phosphatidylinositol-5-kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptide antigen via MHC class II; endocytosis; and neu...
PIN1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activating protein binding activity; beta-catenin binding activity; and protein phosphorylated amino acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein stabilization; regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of prot...
PITX2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; phosphoprotein binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including deltoid tuberosity development; iris morphogenesis; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Acts upstream of or within regulation of transcription by RNA pol...
PLA2G12A: Predicted to enable phospholipase A2 activity. Predicted to be involved in arachidonic acid secretion; glycerophospholipid metabolic process; and lipid c...
PLCB1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; calmodulin binding activity; and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; phosphatidylinositol metabolic process; and positive regulation of JNK cascade. Located in cytoplasm and nuclear speck. ...
PLCG1: Enables neurotrophin TRKA receptor binding activity; phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to epidermal growth factor stimulus; positive regulation of endothelial cell apoptotic process; and positive regulation of vascular endothelial cell proliferation. Located in cytosol; lamellipodium; and ruffle. Part of COP9 signalosom...
PPP1CA: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion. Involved in dephosphorylation and regulation of circadian rhythm. Acts upstream of or within protein dephosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, includ...
PPP2R1B: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase regulator activity. Involved in apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis and positive regulation of ex...
PRKAA2: Enables AMP-activated protein kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Involved in cellular response to glucose starvation and protein localization to lipid droplet. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on lipid droplet d...
PRKAG1: Enables protein kinase activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to nutrient levels; positive regulation of gene expression; and ...
PRKAR2A: Enables cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity. Located in centrosome; cytoplasm; and plasma membrane raft. Part of...
PRKCB: Enables several functions, including nuclear androgen receptor binding activity; nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in post-translational protein modification; regulation of glucose transmembrane transport; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymer...
PTEN: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; anaphase-promoting complex binding activity; and phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including dephosphorylation; negative regulation of cell migration; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of protein kinase B signaling. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane; and nucleoplasm. Implicated in several diseases, including PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome (multiple); breast can...
PTPN11: Enables several functions, including insulin receptor binding activity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to epidermal growth factor stimulus; positive regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. Located in cytoplasm and nucleus. Part of protein-containing complex. I...
RAC1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly; positive regulation of cellular component biogenesis; and regulation of cell migration. Acts upstream of or within actin cytoskeleton organization; positive regulation of lamellipodium assembly; and ruffle organization. Located in several cellular components, including recycling endosome membrane; ruffle membrane; and trans-Golgi network. Is extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane. Is active i...
RAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of adenylate cyclase activity; positive regulation of MAPK cascade; and positive regulation of peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Located in Golgi apparatus; cytosol; and nuclear speck. Colocalizes with plasma membrane. Impli...
RALB: Enables GTPase activity; enzyme binding activity; and guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to exogenous dsRNA; positive regulation of autophagosome assembly; and positive regulatio...
RIPK1: Enables several functions, including death receptor binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell death; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytosol; mitoch...
RIT1: Enables GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in Ras protein signal transduction. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in plasma memb...
RPS6KA1: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; protein serine/threonine kinase activity; and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of TOR signaling; negative regulation of cy...
RPS6KA3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process. Involved in negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cyt...
RPTOR: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; RNA polymerase III cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein kinase regulator activity. Involved in several processes, including TORC1 signaling; cellular response to leucine; and positive r...
SFN: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Located in cytosol. Implicated ...
SLA: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell differentiation; innate immune response; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Pr...
SLC2A1: Enables several functions, including D-glucose transmembrane transporter activity; dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in glucose import across plasma membrane; long-chain fatty acid import across plasma membrane; and protein-containing complex assembly. Acts upstream of or within central nervous system development and transport across blood-brain barrier. Located in cortical actin cytoskeleton; midbody; and plasma membrane. Part of apical plas...
SMAD2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; SMAD binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA binding activity and DNA-binding transcription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of DNA-templated transcription; regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within common-partner SMAD protein phosphorylation. Located in chromatin; homomeric SMAD protein compl...
SQSTM1: Enables several functions, including K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity; SH2 domain binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localization to perinuclear region of cytoplasm; regulation of protein complex stability; and selective autophagy. Located in s...
STAT2: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of type I interferon-mediated signaling pathway; and regulation of mitochondrial ...
TBK1: Enables phosphoprotein binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling; positive regulation of type I interferon production; and protein phosp...
THEM4: Enables palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity. Involved in fatty acid metabolic process; protein kinase B signaling; and regulation of mitochondrial membr...
TIAM1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Rac protein signal transduction; activation of GTPase activity; and regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transi...
TNFRSF1A: Enables tumor necrosis factor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to mechanical stimulus; positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; and tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. Located in Golgi membrane; extracellular space; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in several diseases, including IgA glomerulonephritis; acne; allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis; autoimmune disease (m...
TRAF2: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; tumor necrosis factor binding activity; and tumor necrosis factor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and protein...
TRIB3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; negative regulation of transcri...
TSC2: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; Hsp90 protein binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in anoikis; negative regulation of TOR signaling; and positive regulation of macroautophagy. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; lysosome; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of TSC1-TSC2 complex. Is active in postsynaptic density. Colocalizes with cytoplasm. Implicated in hepati...
UBE2D3: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependent protei...
UBE2N: Enables ubiquitin binding activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA repair; protein ubiquitination; and regulation of protein ubiquitination...
VAV3: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in several processes, including B cell receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of B...
YWHAB: Enables several functions, including histone deacetylase binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and phosphoserine residue binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cytoplasmic sequestering of protein; negative regulation of G prote...
////
ABCA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzyme bindingactivity; and floppase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcholesterol homeostasis; lipid transport; and secretion by cell. Located inseveral cellular components, including cytoplasmic vesicle; membrane raft;and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of intracellular vesicle. Implicatedin Alzheimer''s disease; coronary artery disease; hypolipoproteinemia (multip...
ABCA2: Enables ATP binding activity; ceramide floppase activity; and endopeptidaseregulator activity. Involved in several processes, including ceramide translocation;cholesterol homeostasis; and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process.Acts upstream of with a positive effect on sphingosine biosynthetic process.Lo...
ABCA3: Enables ABC-type xenobiotic transporter activity; ATP hydrolysis activity;and phosphatidylcholine transporter activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of lipid transport; positive regulation of proteinhomooligomerization; and xenobiotic transmembrane transport. Located in alveolarlamellar body membran...
ABCA4: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity; phosphatidylethanolamine flippaseactivity; and retinal binding activity. Involved in phospholipid translocationand retinal metabolic process. Located in cytoplasmic vesicle and endoplasmicreticulum. Implic...
ABCA5: Predicted to enable ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activityand lipid transporter activity. Involved in cholesterol homeostasis; cholesterolmetabolic process; and regulation of cholesterol efflux. Predicted to be locatedin lysosome....
ABCA6: Predicted to enable ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activityand lipid transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in lipid transport.Located in Golgi membran...
ABCA8: Enables ABC-type xenobiotic transporter activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol efflux; positive regulation of cholesterolefflux; and sphingomyelin biosynthetic process. Loc...
ABCA9: Predicted to enable ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activityand lipid transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in lipid transport.Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be ...
ABCD1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type fatty-acyl-CoA transporteractivity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity.Involved in several processes, including fatty acid catabolic process; long-chainfatty acid import into peroxisome; and very long-chain fatty-acyl-CoA catabolicprocess. Located in several cellular components, including bounding membraneof organe...
ABCD2: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; acyl-CoAhydrolase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in fattyacid beta-oxidation; positive regulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation; andvery long...
ABCD3: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in fatty acid metabolicprocess; long-chain fatty acid import into peroxisome; and peroxisome organization.Located in peroxisomal matrix and peroxisomal membrane. Im...
ABCG4: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity; protein heterodimerization activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cholesterol e...
ABCG8: Enables ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activity and proteinheterodimerization activity. Contributes to ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and cholesterol transfer activity. Involved in cholesterol efflux;cholesterol homeostasis; and negative regulation of intestinal lipid absorption.Located in apical plasma membrane. Part of ATP-binding activity cassette (ABC)transporter complex and receptor complex...
ACSL1: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in lipidbiosynthetic process; long-chain fatty acid import into cell; and long-chainfatty acid metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic ...
ACSL5: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in long-chainfatty acid metabolic process and regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway. Located in several cellular components, including en...
AGXT: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and transaminase activity. Involved in alpha-aminoacid metabolic process and glyoxylate catabolic process. Located in peroxis...
AKR1D1: Predicted to enable alditol:NADP+ 1-oxidoreductase activity; ketosteroidmonooxygenase activity; and steroid dehydrogenase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including C21-steroid hormone metabolic process; androgen metabolicprocess; and cholesterol catabolic process. Acts upstream of or within bileacid biosynthetic p...
ALDH1A1: Enables 3-deoxyglucosone dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellulardetoxification of aldehyde and fructosamine catabolic process. Located incyt...
ALDH8A1: Enables retinal dehydrogenase activity. Involved in retinal metabolicprocess and retinoic acid metabolic process. Loc...
ALDH9A1: Enables 4-trimethylammoniobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity; aminobutyraldehydedehydrogenase activity; and small molecule binding activity. Involved in cellularaldehyde metabolic process; neurotransmitter biosynthetic process; and pr...
AMACR: Enables alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in bile acid metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion;peroxisome; and plasma membrane. Implicated in alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemasedeficiency; congenital bile acid synthesis defect 4; and urinary bladder cancer.Biom...
APOA1: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;cholesterol binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Contributesto cholesterol transfer activity. Involved in several processes, includinglipid transport; positive regulation of transport; and regulation of Rho proteinsignal transduction. Acts upstream of or within cholesterol transport. Locatedin endocytic vesicle and extracellular space. Part of spherical high-densitylipoprotein particle and very-low-density lipoprotein particle. Implicatedin several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); familial visceralamyloidosis; hypolipoproteinemia (multiple); non-alcoholic steatohepatitis;and systemic lupus erythematosus. Biom...
AQP9: Enables channel activity and nucleobase transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cAMP; glyceroltransmembrane transport; and nucleobase transport. Located in intracellularmembrane-bounde...
AR: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; DNA-bindingtranscription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and androgen bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to hormonestimulus; cellular response to testosterone stimulus; and regulation of macromoleculebiosynthetic process. Located in chromatin; cytosol; and nuclear speck. Partof protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including attentiondeficit hyperactivity disorder; conduct disorder; disorder of sexual development(multiple); reproductive organ cancer (...
ATXN1: Enables identical protein binding activity; protein self-association;and single-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof DNA-templated transcription and nuclear export. Located in cytosol; nuclearinclusion body; an...
BBOX1: Enables gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase activity; identical proteinbinding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in carnitine biosyntheticpro...
BCAR3: Enables kinase binding activity and phosphotyrosine residue bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including endothelin receptor signalingpathway; insulin receptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of signaltransduct...
BMP6: Enables BMP receptor binding activity and protein heterodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofadherens junction organization; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signalingpathway. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm; extracellular region; and vesicle.Predicted to be active in extracellular space...
CAT: Enables several functions, including catalase activity; heme bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including UV protection; cellular detoxification of hydrogen peroxide; andhydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in catalase complex and intracellularmembrane-bounded organelle. Part of protein-containing complex. Is activein peroxisome. Implicated in several diseases, including acatalasia; eye disease(multiple); lung disease (multiple); osteonecrosis; and pseudoxanthoma elasticum.Biomarker of several ...
CH25H: Enables cholesterol 25-hydroxylase activity. Involved in cholesterolmetabolic process; negative regulation of fusion of virus membrane with hostplasma membrane; and response to type I interferon. Predicted to be locatedin cytosol...
CROT: Enables carnitine O-octanoyltransferase activity. Involved in fattyacid beta-oxidation; generation of precursor metabolites and energy; and medium-chainfatty acid...
CYP27A1: Enables heme binding activity and monooxygenase activity. Involvedin bile acid biosynthetic process; calcitriol biosynthetic process from calciol;and cholesterol catabolic process. Predicted to be located in mitochondrialmatrix. Predicted to be active in mitochondrion. Implicated in ce...
CYP39A1: Enables oxysterol 7-alpha-hydroxylase activity. Involved in bileacid biosynthetic process. Predicted to be located in e...
CYP46A1: Enables cholesterol 24-hydroxylase activity; heme binding activity;and steroid hydroxylase activity. Involved in cholesterol catabolic process;progesterone metabolic process; and xenobiotic metabolic process. Predictedto be located in dendrite; ...
CYP7A1: Enables cholesterol 7-alpha-monooxygenase activity. Involved in bileacid biosynthetic process; cellular response to glucose stimulus; and regulationof bile acid biosynthetic process. Predicted to be located in endoplasmicreticulum membrane. Predicted to be active in intracellular ...
CYP7B1: Predicted to enable oxysterol 7-alpha-hydroxylase activity. Predictedto be involved in B cell chemotaxis; bile acid biosynthetic process; and cholesterolhomeostasis. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation ofintracellular estrogen receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation ofepithelial cell proliferation; and prostate gland epithelium morphogenesis.Predicted to be located in endoplasmic retic...
CYP8B1: Predicted to enable sterol 12-alpha-hydroxylase activity. Predictedto be involved in bile acid biosynthetic process and positive regulation ofintestinal cholesterol absorption. Predicted ...
DHCR24: Enables enzyme binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and peptide antigen bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol biosyntheticprocess via desmosterol; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity involved in apoptotic process; and response to oxidative stress.Acts upstream of or within cholesterol bio...
DIO1: Predicted to enable thyroxine 5''-deiodinase activity. Involved in aminoacid metabolic process. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. ...
DIO2: Enables thyroxine 5''-deiodinase activity; thyroxine 5-deiodinase activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in thyroid hormonemetabolic process. Predicted to be located...
EFHC1: Enables alpha-tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cerebral cortex cell migration; mitotic cytokinesis; and mitoticspindle organization. Located in centrosome; mitotic spindle; and spindlepole. Implicated in ...
EPHX2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;phosphatase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasis; phospholipid dephosphorylation;and stilbene catabolic process. Located in cytosol and peroxisome. Implicated...
FADS1: Enables acyl-CoA delta5-desaturase activity and linoleoyl-CoA desaturaseactivity. Involved in cellular response to starvation. Acts upstream of orwithin long-chain fatty acid biosynthetic process and unsaturated...
FADS2: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors,with oxidation of a pair of donors resulting in the reduction of molecularoxygen to two molecules of water. Predicted to be involv...
FDXR: Predicted to enable NADPH-adrenodoxin reductase activity. Predictedto be involved in ubiquinone biosynthetic proce...
GC: Enables actin binding activity and calcidiol binding activity. Predictedto be involved in vitamin transport. Predicted to act upstream of or withinvitamin D metabolic process. Located in blood microparticle and extracellularexosome. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple);chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; hepatocellular carcinoma; human immunodeficiencyvirus infectious disease; and rheumatic fever. Biomarker of several diseases,including ...
GCLM: Enables glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit binding activity.Contributes to glutamate-cysteine ligase activity. Involved in several processes,including blood vessel diameter maintenance; glutamate metabolic process;and glutathione biosynthetic process. Part of glutamate-cysteine l...
GNMT: Enables glycine N-methyltransferase activity; glycine binding activity;and identical protein binding activity. Involved in S-adenosylmethionine metabolicprocess and protein homotetramerization. Located in cytosol....
GNPAT: Enables glycerone-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Involved inether lipid biosynthetic process. Located in peroxisome. Implicated in rhizome...
GSTK1: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity and glutathione transferaseactivity. Involved in epithelial cell differenti...
HACL1: Enables several functions, including 2-hydroxy-3-methylhexadecanoyl-CoAlyase activity; ATP binding activity; and cation binding activity. Involvedin fatty acid alpha-oxidation; phytanic acid metabolic process; and proteintarge...
HAO1: Enables (S)-2-hydroxy-acid oxidase activity; FMN binding activity; andglyoxylate oxidase activity. Involved in fatty acid alpha-oxidation and glycolatecataboli...
HSD17B11: Enables steroid dehydrogenase activity. Involved in androgen catabolicprocess. Located in cyto...
HSD17B4: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity; oxidoreductase activity, actingon the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including androgen metabolic process;estrogen metabolic process; and fatty-acyl-CoA metabolic process. Locatedin peroxisome. Implicated...
HSD17B6: Enables NAD-retinol dehydrogenase activity and steroid dehydrogenaseactivity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. Involvedin brexanolone catabolic process. Predicted to be located in early endosomemembrane and endoplasmic reticulum. P...
HSD3B1: Predicted to enable 3-beta-hydroxy-delta5-steroid dehydrogenase activityand steroid delta-isomerase activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including C21-steroid hormone metabolic process; hippocampus development;and response to corticosterone. Located in several cellular components, includinginterce...
HSD3B7: Predicted to enable cholest-5-ene-3-beta,7-alpha-diol 3-beta-dehydrogenaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in B cell chemotaxis. Located in lipiddroplet. Implicated in congenital bile acid...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutaratemetabolic process and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol andperoxisome. Implicated in autoimmune disease; hematologic cancer (multiple);hepatocellular clear cell carcinoma; and high gra...
IDH2: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity. Predicted to be involvedin 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process; NADP metabolic process; and isocitratemetabolic process. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in D-2-hydroxyglutaricaciduria 2; acute myeloid leukemia; carcinoma (multiple); and lung cancer(multiple). Biomarker of hepatocell...
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and manganese ion binding activity. Involved in isoprenoidbiosy...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in peroxisome. Predicted to be activ...
KLF1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in erythrocyte differentiation and positive regulationof DNA-templated transcription. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Implicatedin congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type IV. Biomarker of Diamond-B...
LCK: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic process; peptidyl-tyrosine autophosphorylation; and positiveregulation of cell-cell adhesion. Located in immunologi...
LIPE: Enables carboxylic ester hydrolase activity. Predicted to be involvedin diacylglycerol catabolic process; ether lipid metabolic process; and triglyceridecatabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular responseto cold and long-chain fatty acid catabolic process. Located in cytosol. Implicatedin familial partial lipodystrop...
LONP2: Enables peptidase activity and protease binding activity. Involvedin protein processing; protein targeting to peroxisome; and regulation offatty acid ...
MLYCD: Enables identical protein binding activity and malonyl-CoA decarboxylaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including acyl-CoA metabolic process;positive regulation of fatty acid oxidation; and regulation of glucose metabolicprocess. Located...
NEDD4: Enables several functions, including beta-2 adrenergic receptor bindingactivity; sodium channel inhibitor activity; and ubiquitin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including intracellular steroid hormone receptorsignaling pathway; positive regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling;and regulation of monoatomic ion transmembrane transporter activity. Actsupstream of or within positive regulation of protein catabolic process andprotein ubiquitination. Located in several cell...
NPC1: Enables cholesterol binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cholesterol homeostasis; cholesterol transport; and negative regulationof TORC1 signaling. Acts upstream of or within autophagy. Located in severalcellular components, including lysosomal membrane; nuclear envelope; and ...
NR0B2: Enables several functions, including protein homodimerization activity;transcription corepressor activity; and transcription regulator inhibitoractivity. Involved in circadian rhythm and regulation of gene expression.Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription.Located in chromatin;...
NR1H4: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; chenodeoxycholic acid binding activity;and transcription coregulator binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to lipid; histone H3-R17 methylation; and regulationof gene expression. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of very-low-densitylipoprotein particle remodeling and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription.Located in euchromatin. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in extrahepaticcholestasis; hepatocellular carcinoma; and ...
NR1I2: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity; and nuclear receptor binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; xenobiotic catabolic process; and xenobiotictransport. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of DNA-templatedtranscrip...
NR3C2: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling. Located in nucleoplasm.Part of receptor complex. Implicated in autosomal dominant pseud...
NUDT12: Enables NAD+ diphosphatase activity; NADH pyrophosphatase activity;and phosphodiesterase decapping endonuclease activity. Involved in NAD-capdecapping and methylguanosine-cap decapping. Acts upstream of or within NADcatabolic process an...
OPTN: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity; and small GTPasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasmamembrane protein transport; negative regulation of receptor recycling; andparkin-mediated stimulation of mitophagy in response to mitochondrial depolarization.Located in cytosol and trans-Golgi network. Implicated in Paget''s diseaseof bone; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (multiple)...
PAOX: Enables polyamine oxidase activity. Involved in polyamine metabolicprocess and positive regulation of spermidine biosynthetic process. Predictedto be located in cytosol and peroxisomal matr...
PECR: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and trans-2-enoyl-CoA reductase(NADPH) activity. Involved in phytol metabolic ...
PEX1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in proteinimport into peroxisome matrix, receptor recycling and protein unfolding. Actsupstream of or within microtubule-based peroxisome localization. Located incytosol and peroxisome. Is active in peroxisomal membrane. Implicated i...
PEX11A: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in peroxisomefission; regulation of peroxisome size; and signal transduction. Located inperoxisomal membr...
PEX11G: Involved in peroxisome fission and regulation of peroxisome size.Located in peroxisomal membrane. Part of ...
PEX12: Enables ubiquitin ligase activator activity and zinc ion binding activity.Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix, receptor recycling. Locatedin peroxisomal membrane. Implicated in peroxisome biogenes...
PEX13: Enables protein transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in proteinimport into peroxisome matrix, docking. Located in peroxisomal membrane. Implicatedin peroxisomal biogenesis di...
PEX16: Involved in peroxisome organization and protein to membrane docking.Acts upstream of or within protein import into peroxisome matrix. Locatedin endoplasmic reticulum membrane and peroxisomal membrane. Implicated inperoxisomal ...
PEX19: Enables ATPase binding activity; peroxisome membrane class-1 targetingsequence binding activity; and protein carrier chaperone. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of lipid binding activity; peroxisomeorganization; and protein stabilization. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm;and peroxisomal membrane. Pa...
PEX26: Enables ATPase binding activity and protein-membrane adaptor activity.Involved in protein import into peroxisome matrix and protein to membranedocking. Located in peroxisome. Is active in peroxisomal membrane. Implicatedin peroxisoma...
PEX6: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and ubiquitin-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in proteinimport into peroxisome matrix; protein stabilization; and protein unfolding.Located in cytosol; peroxisome; and photoreceptor cell cilium. Is active inperoxisomal membrane. Implicated in Heim...
PEX7: Enables enzyme binding activity; peroxisome matrix targeting signal-2binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in etherlipid biosynthetic process and peroxisome organization. Acts upstream of orwithin protein import into peroxisome matrix. Located in peroxisome. Is activein cytosol and peroxisomal matrix. Implicat...
PFKM: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity;ATP binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes,including fructose 6-phosphate metabolic process; glycolytic process throughfructose-6-phosphate; and muscle cell cellular homeostasis. Located in apicalplasma membrane and nucleus...
PHYH: Enables L-ascorbic acid binding activity; ferrous iron binding activity;and phytanoyl-CoA dioxygenase activity. Involved in carboxylic acid metabolicprocess and isoprenoid metabolic process. Located in 9+0 non-motile ciliumand peroxisome. Implicated in Refsum dis...
PIPOX: Enables L-pipecolate oxidase activity and sarcosine oxidase activity.Involved in L-lysine catabolic process to acetyl-CoA via L-p...
PNPLA8: Enables calcium-independent phospholipase A2 activity. Involved inseveral processes, including arachidonic acid secretion; glycerophospholipidmetabolic process; and unsaturated fatty acid me...
PRDX5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity;and peroxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including NADPH oxidation;positive regulation of collagen biosynthetic process; and regulation of apoptoticprocess. Located in several cellular components, including mi...
PXMP2: Located in peroxisomal membrane. Part of protein-conta...
RBP1: Enables all-trans-retinol binding activity. Involved in lipid homeostasisand vitamin A metabolic process. Located in cytosol;...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predictedto be involved in retinol metabolic p...
RXRA: Enables several functions, including nuclear receptor activity; nuclearvitamin D receptor binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity.Contributes to vitamin D response element binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including intracellular receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof signal transduction; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Actsupstream of or within positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription re...
RXRG: Enables molecular condensate scaffold activity and sequence-specificdouble-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII; response to retinoic acid; and retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway.Predicted to act upstream of or within DNA-templated transcription; intracellularreceptor signaling pathway; and positive regulation of transcription fromRNA polymerase II promoter involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus.Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be part of RNA po...
SCP2: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; cholesterolbinding activity; and lipid transfer activity. Involved in several processes,including inositol trisphosphate biosynthetic process; lipid transport; andprogesterone biosynthetic process. Located in nucleoplasm and peroxi...
SERPINA6: Enables steroid binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negativeregulation of endopeptidase activity. Predicted to act upstream of or withinglucocorticoid metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Im...
SLC22A18: Enables transmembrane transporter activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in xenobiotic detoxification by transmembraneexport across the plasma membrane. Located in apical plasma membrane; cytoplasm;and nuclear envelope. Implicated in breast cancer and esophagus adenocarcinoma.Biomarker ...
SLC23A1: Enables L-ascorbate:sodium symporter activity; L-ascorbic acid transmembranetransporter activity; and dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in organic anion transport; response to toxic substance; an...
SLC23A2: Enables L-ascorbate:sodium symporter activity and L-ascorbic acidtransmembrane transporter activity. Involved in L-ascorbic acid transmembranetransport. Located in apical pla...
SLC27A2: Enables CoA-ligase activity; enzyme binding activity; and long-chainfatty acid transporter activity. Involved in monocarboxylic acid metabolicprocess. Located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen; endopla...
SLC27A5: Enables cholate-CoA ligase activity; long-chain fatty acid transporteractivity; and very long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved inbile acid biosynthetic process and very long-chain fatty acid metabol...
SLC29A1: Enables neurotransmitter transmembrane transporter activity; purinenucleoside transmembrane transporter activity; and uridine transmembrane transporteractivity. Involved in neurotransmitter reuptake; nucleoside transport; andpyrimidine-containing compound transmembrane transport. Located in apica...
SLC35B2: Enables 3''-phosphoadenosine 5''-phosphosulfate transmembrane transporteractivity. Involved in 3''-phosphoadenosine 5''-phosphosulfate transport. Loc...
SLCO1A2: Enables organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. Predictedto be involved in bile acid and bile salt transport and sodium-independentorganic anion...
SOAT2: Enables cholesterol O-acyltransferase activity; cholesterol bindingactivity; and fatty-acyl-CoA binding activity. Involved in cholesterol efflux;cholesterol metabolic process; and very-low-density lipoprotein particle assembly.Located in brush border and endoplasmic reticulum membr...
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxidedismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negativeregulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation ofsuperoxide anion generation. Located in several cellular components, includingdendrite cytoplasm; neuronal cell body; and peroxisome. Part of protein-containingcomplex. Colocalizes with plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases,including Down syndrome; artery disease (multiple); eye disease (multiple);glucose metabolism disease (multiple); and neurodegenerative disease (multiple).B...
SULT1B1: Enables aryl sulfotransferase activity. Involved in several processes,including 3''-phosphoadenosine 5''-phosphosulfate metabolic process; ethanolcatabolic process; and thyroid hormone metabolic process. Acts upstream ofor within sulfation. Predicted...
SULT2B1: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; steroid binding activity;and steroid sulfotransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including3''-phosphoadenosine 5''-phosphosulfate metabolic process; cholesterol metabolicprocess; and positive regulation of epidermal cell differentiation. Locatedin cytosol and intracellular mem...
TFCP2L1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and membrane. Predicted to be...
TTR: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin purine nucleobase metabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome.Implicated in Alzheimer''s disease; amyloidosis; carpal tunnel syndrome; dystransthyretinemichyperthyroxinemia; and transthyretin amyloidosis. Biomarker of colorectala...
////
ALDH18A1: Enables glutamate 5-kinase activity; glutamate-5-semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in alpha-amino acid metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in cataract; cutis laxa (multipl...
ARFGAP1: Enables GTPase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of ARF protein signal transduction and regulation of e...
ASNS: Enables asparagine synthase (glutamine-hydrolyzing) activity. Involved in cellular response to glucose starvation; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle. Acts upstream of or wi...
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; positive regulation of TRAIL-activated apoptotic signaling pathway; and positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription reg...
ATF4: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; leucine zipper domain binding activity; and promoter-specific chromatin binding activity. Contributes to transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including HRI-mediated signaling; cellular response to starvation; and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in several cellular components, including Lewy body core; neuron projection; and nucleus. Part of ATF1-ATF4 transcription factor com...
ATF6: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ATF6-mediated unfolded protein response; positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; and visual perception. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of autophagy. Located in Golgi ...
ATP6V0D1: Predicted to enable proton transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to contribute to proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in cellular response to increased oxygen levels and intracellular iron ion homeostasis. Located in membrane. Part of vacuolar ...
BAG3: Enables adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including muscle cell cellular homeostasis; positive regulation of aggrephagy; and positive regulation of nucleocytoplasmic transport. Acts upstream of or within extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway via death domain receptors. Located in cytosol; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Part of protein folding chaperone...
BANF1: Enables several functions, including LEM domain binding activity; double-stranded DNA binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including mitotic nuclear membrane reassembly; negative regulation of protein ADP-ribosylation; and negative regulation of viral genome replication. Located in cytosol an...
CALR: Enables several functions, including integrin binding activity; nuclear androgen receptor binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; negative regulation of signal transduction; and regulation of cell migration. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum lumen; nuclear envelope; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of MHC class I peptide loading complex and polysome. Implicated in several diseases, including endocrine gland cancer (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); lung cancer (multiple...
CCL2: Predicted to enable CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; leukocyte chemotaxis; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in extracellular region. Implicated in several diseases, including Henoch-Schoenlein purpura; aggressive periodontitis; autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); and tuberculosis (multiple). Biomarker of several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multipl...
CEBPB: Enables RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of biomineral tissue development; positive regulation of sodium-dependent phosphate transport; and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in C/EBP complex; CHOP-C...
CEBPG: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA repair and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Acts upstream of or within regulation of transcription by RNA ...
CHAC1: Predicted to enable Notch binding activity and gamma-glutamylcyclotransferase activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress; negative regulation of Notch signaling pathway; and ne...
CKS1B: Predicted to enable several functions, including cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity; histone binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of mitotic cell cycle. Predicted to act upstream of or within fibroblast proliferation; mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. P...
CNOT2: Enables transcription corepressor binding activity. Contributes to poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of intracellular estrogen receptor signaling pathway; negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and positive regulation of cytoplasmic mRNA processing body ass...
CNOT4: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in protein autoubiquitination; regulation of megakaryocyte differentiation; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic...
CNOT6: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity and poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity. Involved in nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positive regulation of cytoplasmic mRNA processi...
CXXC1: Enables unmethylated CpG binding activity. Contributes to histone H3K4 methyltransferase activity. Involved in histone H3-K4 methylation and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in cyto...
DCP1A: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in methylguanosine-cap decapping and protein localization to cytoplasmic stress granule. Located in...
DCP2: Enables 5'-3' RNA exonuclease activity. Involved in histone mRNA catabolic process; regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process; and regulation of telomerase RNA localization to Cajal body. Located in P-bo...
DCTN1: Enables microtubule binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; plasma membrane bounded cell projection organization; and regulation of microtubule cytoskeleton organization. Located in several cellular components, including kinetochore; microtubule cytoskeleton; and neuronal cell body. Part of centriolar subdistal appendage and microtubule associated complex. Colocalizes with cell cortex and retromer c...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defense response to virus; negative regulation of TOR signaling; and respo...
DDX10: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA processing. Predicted to act upstream of or within anterior head development....
DKC1: Enables box H/ACA snoRNA binding activity; pseudouridine synthase activity; and telomerase RNA binding activity. Contributes to telomerase activity. Involved in several processes, including nucleic acid metabolic process; positive regulation of establishment of protein localization to telomere; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Located in fibrillar center and nucleoplasm. Part of box H/ACA snoRNP complex and box H/ACA ...
DNAJA4: Enables protein-folding chaperone binding activity and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of endothelial cell migration; negative regulation of inclusion body assembly...
DNAJB9: Enables misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in ubiquitin-dependent ERAD pathway. Located ...
DNAJC3: Predicted to enable several functions, including misfolded protein binding activity; protein kinase inhibitor activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process and negative regulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced eI...
EDC4: Predicted to be involved in deadenylation-independent decapping of nuclear-transcribed mRNA. Located ...
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway; positive regulation of retrograde protein transport, ER to cytosol; and protein targeting to ER. Locate...
EEF2: Enables protein kinase binding activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of translation. Located in aggresome; cytosol; and plasma membrane. Part of ribonucleoprotein complex. Implicated in glaucoma; spinocerebellar ataxia type 26; and stomach cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, including brain glioblastoma multiforme; col...
EIF2AK3: Enables eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2alpha kinase activity; identical protein binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to starvation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and protein phosphorylation. Located in...
EIF2S1: Enables ribosome binding activity and translation initiation factor activity. Involved in PERK-mediated unfolded protein response and positive regulation of neuron death. Located in cytosol. Part of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 complex and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B co...
EIF4A1: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cytoplasmic translational initia...
EIF4A2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in negative regulation of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity. Located in pe...
EIF4A3: Enables ATP binding activity; RNA binding activity; and RNA helicase activity. Involved in embryonic cranial skeleton morphogenesis; mRNA splicing, via spliceosome; and regulation of gene expression. Located in cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. Part of U2-type catalytic step 1 spliceosome; catalytic step 2 spliceosome; and exon-exon junc...
EIF4E: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; eukaryotic initiation factor 4G binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle; and regulation of translation. Located in cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granule; cytosol; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Part of RISC complex; eukaryotic trans...
EIF4EBP1: Enables eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding activity and translation repressor activity. Involved in several processes, including G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; TOR signaling; and negative regulation of translational initiation. Lo...
EIF4G1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including energy homeostasis; positive regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex assembly; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in cytoplasmic stress granule; cytosol; and nucleus. Part of eukaryot...
ERN1: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity; heat shock protein binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including IRE1-mediated unfolded protein response; mRNA processing; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Part of IRE1-RACK1-PP2A complex and I...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in cell redox homeostasis and chaperone cofactor-dependent protein refolding. Located in Golgi lumen; endoplas...
EXOC2: Enables protein kinase binding activity and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in Golgi to plasma membrane transport; regulation of entry of bacterium into host cell; and vesicle docking involved i...
EXOSC1: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in RNA catabolic process and RNA processing. Located in cytosol and nucleolus. Part of exosome (RNase complex). Implic...
EXOSC10: Enables 3'-5'-RNA exonuclease activity. Involved in several processes, including RNA catabolic process; maturation of 5.8S rRNA; and negative regulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase. Located in cytosol; euchromatin; an...
EXOSC2: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in RNA catabolic process; RNA processing; and positive regulation of cell growth. Located in cytosol; nucleolus; and nucleoplasm. Part of nuclear exosome (RNase complex). Implicated in short statur...
EXOSC4: Enables mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in nucleic acid metabolic process and positive regulation of cell growth. Acts upstream of or within defense response to virus. Located in cytosol; euchromat...
EXOSC5: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in DNA deamination; RNA processing; and exonucleolytic catabolism of deadenylated mRNA. Acts upstream of or within defense response to virus. Located in cytosol; euchroma...
EXOSC9: Enables mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in RNA metabolic process and positive regulation of cell growth. Located in cytosol and nuclear lumen. Part of nuclear exosome (RNase complex)...
FKBP14: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Predicted to be involved in protein peptidyl-prolyl isomerization. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen. Im...
FUS: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; molecular condensate scaffold activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid fibril formation; protein homooligomerization; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within mRNA stabilization. Located in nucleoplasm. Is active in intracellular non-membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ...
GEMIN4: Enables ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Involved in spliceosomal snRNP assembly. Located in Cajal body; cytosol; and nucleolus. Part of SMN complex. Implicated in neurodevelopmental disorder wi...
GOSR2: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and SNARE binding activity. Involved in intra-Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in Golgi membrane. Implica...
H2AX: Enables enzyme binding activity and histone binding activity. Involved in DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in centrosome; nuclear speck; and site of double-strand break. Colocalizes with chromosome, telomeric region. Biomarker o...
HERPUD1: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ERAD pathway; endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion homeostasis; and regulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Locate...
HSP90B1: Enables RNA binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in ERAD pathway; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or within actin rod assembly; cellular response to ATP; and regulation of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum; midbod...
HSPA5: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to glucose starvation; positive regulation of cell migration; and protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; and midbody. Part of endoplasmic reticulum chaperone complex. Colocalizes with COP9 signalosome. Impli...
HSPA9: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in erythrocyte differentiation; iron-sulfur cluster assembly; and negative regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. Located in mitochondrial nucleoid. Part of MIB complex and SAM complex. Implicated in Parkinson's disease and autosomal dominant sideroblastic anemia ...
HYOU1: Predicted to enable protein-folding chaperone binding activity and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to hypoxia; endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport; and negative regulation of hypoxia-induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. Located in extr...
IARS1: Enables GTPase binding activity and isoleucine-tRNA ligase activity. Involved in osteoblast differentiation. Acts upstream of or within isoleucyl-tRNA aminoacylation. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Pa...
IFIT1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to exogenous dsRNA; innate immune response; and regulation of viral...
IGFBP1: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and insulin-like growth factor II binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Located in Golgi apparatus. Imp...
IMP3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA processing. Located in nucleolus and nucleopl...
KDELR3: Enables KDEL sequence binding activity. Involved in retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to endoplasmic reticulum. Located in Golgi membrane and endoplasmic reticulum membrane....
KHSRP: Enables mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity and protein folding chaperone. Involved in several processes, including miRNA metabolic process; negative regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; and negative regulation of low-den...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity; and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, including natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity; positive regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; and vesicle transport alo...
LSM1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in histone mRNA catabolic process. Located in ...
LSM4: Enables PH domain binding activity. Involved in mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. Located in cytosol; membrane; and nucleus. Part of Lsm2-8 complex; U2-type precatalytic spl...
MTHFD2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity; methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activity; and methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity. Involved in tetrahydr...
MTREX: Enables ATP binding activity and RNA helicase activity. Involved in DNA damage response; RNA catabolic process; and maturation of 5.8S rRNA. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of TRAMP complex and catalytic step 2 spliceosome. Colocalizes with nuclear exoso...
NABP1: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; mitotic G2/M transition checkpoint; and response to ionizing radiation. Located in cytosol; nucleopla...
NFYA: Enables DNA binding activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in histone H3-K4 trimethylation; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of histone acetylation. Located in nucleoplasm...
NFYB: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in histone H3-K4 trimethylation; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of histone acetylati...
NHP2: Enables box H/ACA snoRNA binding activity and telomerase RNA binding activity. Involved in telomere maintenance via telomerase. Located in chromosome, telomeric region. Part of box H/ACA snoRNP complex and box H/ACA telomerase RNP complex....
NOLC1: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in neural crest cell development; neural crest formation; and regulation of translation. Acts upstream of or within axonogenesis ...
NOP14: Enables enzyme binding activity. Predicted to be involved in endonucleolytic cleavage in 5'-ETS of tricistronic rRNA transcript (SSU-rRNA, 5.8S rRNA, LSU-rRNA); endonucleolytic cleavage in ITS1 to separate SSU-rRNA from 5.8S rRNA and LSU-rRNA from tricistronic rRNA transcript (SSU-rRNA, 5.8S rRNA, LSU-rRNA); and endonucleolytic cleavage to generate mature 5'-...
NOP56: Enables histone methyltransferase binding activity and snoRNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA processing. Located in fibrillar center. Part of pre-snoRNP complex and sno(s)RNA-containing ribonucleoprotei...
NPM1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; nucleic acid binding activity; and ribosome binding activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cell cycle process; regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in cytoplasm; nuclear lumen; and spindle pole cen...
PAIP1: Enables translation activator activity. Involved in CRD-mediated mRNA stabilization; negative regulation of nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process, deadenylation-dependent decay; and positive regulation of cytoplasmic tran...
PARN: Enables cation binding activity; poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including RNA metabolic process; positive regulation of DNA biosynthetic process; and telomerase RNA stabilization. Located in nuclear speck an...
PDIA5: Enables protein disulfide isomerase activity and protein-disulfide reductase activity. Involved in protein folding. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen and endoplasmic reticulum membran...
PDIA6: Enables protein-disulfide reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of IRE1-mediated unfolded protein response and response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic...
POP4: Enables ribonuclease P RNA binding activity. Contributes to ribonuclease P activity. Involved in tRNA 5'-leader removal. Located in nucleolus and nucleoplasm. P...
PREB: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in protein exit from endoplasmic reticulum. Located in end...
PSAT1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in L-serine biosynthetic process. Located in cytosol. Implicated in Neu-La...
RPS14: Enables mRNA 5'-UTR binding activity and translation regulator activity. A structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in several processes, including erythrocyte differentiation; negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and ribosomal small subunit assembly. Located in cytosolic ribosome and nucleolus. Part of cytosolic small ribosomal ...
RRP9: Enables RNA binding activity. Contributes to U3 snoRNA binding activity. Involved in rRNA processing. Located in nucleolu...
SDAD1: Predicted to be involved in ribosomal large subunit biogenesis and ribosomal large subunit export from nucleus. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular response to leukemia inhibito...
SEC11A: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in signal peptide processing. Part of s...
SEC31A: Enables calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in COPII-coated vesicle cargo loading and response to calcium ion. Located in several cellular components, including COPII-coated ER to Golgi transport vesicle; endoplasmic reticulum exit site; ...
SERP1: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response and protein glycosylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulation of organ growth; positive regulation of peptide hormone secretion; and posi...
SHC1: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade; positive regulation of cell proliferation in bone marrow; and regulation of DNA-templated transcr...
SLC1A4: Enables L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and chloride channel activity. Involved in amino acid transport and cognition. Located in centrosome. Part o...
SLC30A5: Enables zinc efflux transmembrane transporter activity and zinc:proton antiporter activity. Involved in intracellular zinc ion homeostasis; response to zinc ion; and zinc ion transmembrane transport. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on GPI anchor biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of or within cobalt ion transport and zinc ion transport. Located in several cel...
SLC7A5: Enables L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and secondary active transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, including amino acid transport; phenylalanine transport; and thyroid hormone transport. Located in apical plasma membrane; cytosol; and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of amino acid transport complex and microvillus membrane. Implicated in cholangiocarcinoma; colon cancer; hepatocellular carcinoma; and lung squamous cell carcinoma. Biomarker of eso...
SPCS1: Predicted to enable peptidase activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in signal peptide processing; viral protein processing; and virion assembl...
SPCS3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Involved in signal peptide processing and viral protein processing. Located...
SRPRA: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to ER...
SRPRB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to ER. Located in cytoplas...
SSR1: Predicted to be involved in cotranslational protein targeting to membrane and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. ...
STC2: Enables enzyme binding activity; heme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of gene expression and regulation of hormone biosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and perinuclea...
TARS1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; threonine-tRNA ligase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in threonyl-tRNA aminoacylation. Located in extracellular exosome. Imp...
TATDN2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and nuclease activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleic acid phosphodiester bond hydrolysis. Pr...
TSPYL2: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity and histone binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA replication; negative regulation of cell growth; and regulation of ...
TUBB2A: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Predicted to be involved in microtubule cytoskeleton organization; mitotic cell cycle; and neuron migration. Located in intercellular bridge; microtubule; and mitotic spindle. Impl...
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity; heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; positive regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and regulation of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including VEGF-A complex; adherens junction; and secretory granule. Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); hematologic cancer (multiple); hypertension (multiple); and reproductive organ cancer...
WFS1: Enables ATPase binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of ATF6-mediated unfolded protein response; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane and secretory granule. Implicated in Wolfram syndrome (multiple); auditory s...
WIPI1: Enables nuclear receptor binding activity; phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including autophagosome assembly; positive regulation of autophagosome assembly; and vesicle targeting, trans-Golgi to endosome. Located in bounding mem...
XBP1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of lymphocyte differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in RNA polymer...
XPOT: Enables tRNA binding activity. Involved in tRNA export from nucleus. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Col...
YIF1A: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticu...
YWHAZ: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein sequestering activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi reassembly; establishment of Golgi localization; and regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Located in several cellular components, including blood microparticle; extracellular exosome; ...
ZBTB17: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell population proliferation and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Acts ...
////
ACE: Enables several functions, including chloride ion binding activity; peptidase activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including angiotensin maturation; arachidonic acid secretion; and peptide catabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including external side of plasma membrane; extracellular exosome; and lysosome. Is active in extracellular space and plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple); autoimmune disease (multiple); gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); heart valve disease (multiple); and lung disease (multiple). Biomarker of...
ACRBP: Predicted to be involved in acrosome assembly and fertilization. Lo...
ACRV1: Predicted to be located in acrosomal...
ACTL7B: Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Predicted to be involved in cytoskeleton organization. Predicted to be located in actin cytoskeleton. Predicted to be part of dynactin complex...
ADAD1: Predicted to enable double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase activity; double-stranded RNA binding activity; and tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase activity. Predicted to be involved in RNA processing and adenosine to inosine editing. Predicted to act upstream of or within spermatid development. Predicted to be locat...
ADAM2: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity and metallopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida and cell adhesion. Predicted to act upstream of or within adult behavior; positive regulation of gene expression; and visual learning. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Pr...
ADCYAP1: Enables neuropeptide hormone activity; peptide hormone receptor binding activity; and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide activity. Involved in several processes, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Predicted to be loca...
AGFG1: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in acrosome assembly; intermediate filament organization; and spermatid nucleus differentiation. Located ...
AKAP4: Predicted to enable protein kinase A binding activity. Involved in flagellated sperm motility. Lo...
ALOX15: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen, incorporation of two atoms of oxygen and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interleukin-13; fatty acid metabolic process; and positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Located in cytosol; lipid droplet; and membra...
ARL4A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular protein transport and vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within brown fat cell differentiation. Locat...
ART3: Predicted to enable NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. Located in ext...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upstream of or within liver regeneration; protein phosphorylation; and response to wounding. Located in several cellular components, including microtubule cytoskeleton; nucleoplasm; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Colocalizes with spindle microtubule. Implicated in colorectal cancer; ovar...
BRAF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; protein kinase activity; and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade; positive regulation of glucose transmembrane transport; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cytosol and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Implicated in several diseases, including Noonan syndrome 7; carcinoma (multipl...
BUB1: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Involved in regulation of chromosome segregation and regulation of sister chromatid cohesion. Located in cytosol; kinetochore; and ...
CAMK4: Enables calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. Involved in long-term memory; myeloid dendritic cell differentiation; and positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription....
CCNA1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transition and regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in microtubule cytoskeleton. ...
CCNB2: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transition; negative regulation of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation; and regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including T cell homeostasis; m...
CCT6B: Enables protein folding chaperone. Involved in protein folding. Located in cytosol. Part of chapero...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled electron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located in several cellular components, including cyclin B1-CDK1 complex; microtubule cytoskeleton; and midbody. Part of cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex and cytoplasm. Colocalizes with mitochondrial matrix. Implicated in breast cancer; cervical cancer; and ...
CDKN3: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Acts upstream of or within regulation of cell cycle. Located in cytosol and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicated in hepatoc...
CFTR: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; PDZ domain binding activity; and salt transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, including bicarbonate transport; cellular response to forskolin; and positive regulation of transport. Located in several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; endoplasmic reticulum membrane; and endosome. Part of protein-containing complex. Implicated in several diseases, including alcoholic pancreatitis; allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis; bronchial disease (multiple); congenital bilateral absence of vas defer...
CHFR: Enables nucleotide binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in modification-dependent protein catabolic process; negative regulation of cell cycle phase transition; an...
CHRM4: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor activity and G protein-coupled serotonin receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, coupled to cyclic nucleotide second messenger; adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway; and chemical synaptic transmission. Predicted to act upstream of or within G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway; chemical postsynaptic transmission; and cholinergic synaptic transmissi...
CLGN: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein folding and ubiquitin-dependent ERAD pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida and protein-cont...
CLPB: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and ATP-dependent protein disaggregase activity. Involved in several processes, including RIG-I signaling pathway; antiviral innate immune response; and granulocyte differentiation. Located in mitochondrial intermembrane space. Implicated in 3-methylglutaconic aciduria typ...
CLVS1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Predicted to be involved in lysosome organiz...
CNIH2: Involved in regulation of AMPA receptor activity. Predicted to be located in dendrite; postsynaptic density; and postsynaptic membrane. Predicted to be part of AMPA glutamate receptor complex. Predicted to be active in dendrite;...
COIL: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in spliceosomal snRNP assembly. Located in Caj...
CRISP2: Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in e...
CSNK2A2: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in negative regulation of ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and regulation of chromosome separation. Loca...
CST8: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be active in cell s...
DBF4: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of nuclear cell cycle DNA replication and regulation of cell cy...
DCC: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved in regulation of neuron death. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; axonal growth cone; and postsynaptic density membrane. Implicated in colorectal cancer; congenital ...
DDX25: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity; RNA binding activity; and RNA helicase activity. Predicted to be involved in poly(A)+ mRNA export from nucleus; regulation of translation; and spermatid development. Predicted to be located in chromatoid body. P...
DDX4: Enables molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in flagellated sperm motility....
DMC1: Enables ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA and identical protein binding activity. Involved in reciprocal meiotic rec...
DMRT1: Enables identical protein binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including male germ cell proliferation; regulation of nuclear division; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including Sertoli cell development; positive ...
DNAJB8: Enables protein folding chaperone; protein-folding chaperone binding activity; and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of inclusion body assembly. Acts upstream of or within chaperone-me...
DPEP3: Predicted to enable dipeptidase activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within proteolysis. Predicted to be located in acroso...
ELOVL3: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid biosynthetic process. Located i...
EZH2: Enables chromatin binding activity; histone H3K27 methyltransferase activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including histone H3-K27 trimethylation; negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Part of ESC/E(Z) complex and chromosome, telomeric region. Implicated in several diseases, including Weaver syndrome; gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); glioblastoma; hematologic cancer (multiple); and renal Wilms' tumor. Biomarker of several diseases, including colorecta...
GAD1: Enables glutamate decarboxylase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in glutamate catabolic process; neurotransmitter biosynthetic process; and protein-pyridoxal-5-phosphate linkage. Predicted to be located in clathrin-sculpted gamma-aminobutyric acid transport vesicle membrane and plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in GABA-ergic synapse; cytoplasm; and presynaptic active zone. Implicated in anxiety disorder; bipo...
GAPDHS: Predicted to enable glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (NAD+) (phosphorylating) activity. Predicted to be involved in flagellated sperm motility and glycolytic process. Located ...
GFI1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; negative regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in nuclear body and nuclear matrix. Part of transcription repressor complex. Implicated in acute ...
GMCL1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in germ cell development and spermatogenesis. Predicted to act upstream of or within regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be located...
GPR182: Predicted to enable transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in cell surface receptor signaling pathway. Pr...
GRM8: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and glutamate receptor activity. Involved in adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled glutamate receptor signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in presynaptic membrane. Predicted to be active in GABA-ergic synapse; glutamatergic synapse; and presynaptic active zone membrane. Implicated in attention deficit hy...
GSG1: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase binding activity. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Predicted t...
GSTM3: Enables several functions, including glutathione binding activity; glutathione transferase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular detoxification of nitrogen compound; nitrobenzene metabolic process; and response to estrogen. Located in cytosol and intercellular bridge. Implicated in several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease; cystic fibrosis; larynx cancer; multiple sclero...
H1-6: Predicted to enable double-stranded DNA binding activity and nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in chromosome condensation; negative regulation of DNA recombination; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to act upstream of or within binding activity of sperm ...
HBZ: Predicted to enable several functions, including heme binding activity; oxygen binding activity; and oxygen carrier activity. Predicted to contribute to haptoglobin binding activity and peroxidase activity. Involv...
HOXB1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcri...
HSPA1L: Enables heat shock protein binding activity; ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion and protein refolding. Located in cytosol. Colocalizes with COP9 signalosome. Implicated in Kawasaki disease; major...
HSPA2: Enables disordered domain specific binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of inclusion body assembl...
HSPA4L: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein folding and response to unfolded ...
HTR5A: Enables G protein-coupled serotonin receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, coupled to cyclic nucleotide second messenger; adenylate cyclase-inhibiting serotonin receptor signaling pathway; and chemical synaptic transmission. Predicted to act upstream of or within adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; p...
IDE: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; insulin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; bradykinin catabolic process; and protein catabolic process. Located in several cellular components, including basolateral plasma membrane; external side of plasma membrane; and peroxisome....
IFT88: Predicted to enable kinesin binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cilium assembly. Located in intraciliary transport particle ...
IL12RB2: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity and cytokine receptor activity. Involved in positive regulation of lymphocyte proliferation; positive regulation of receptor signaling pathway via JAK-STAT; and positive regulation of ...
IL13RA2: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity and cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within immunoglobulin mediated immune response; negative regulation of immunoglobulin production; and negative regulation of mast cell degranulation. Predicted to be located in extracellular space. Predicted to be part of receptor complex. Predicted to be active in external side of plasma membrane. Implicated in breast cancer and pancreatic cancer. Biomarker of...
IP6K1: Enables inositol hexakisphosphate kinase activity. Involved in phosphatidylinositol phosphate biosynthetic process. Located in cytosol; ...
JAM3: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity and integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including apical protein localization; hematopoietic stem cell migration to bone marrow; and negative regulation of integrin activation. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cellular extravasation and positive regulation of membrane permeability. Located in several cellular components, including cell-cell contact zone; desmosome; and microvillus. Part of filamentous actin a...
KIF2C: Enables microtubule plus-end binding activity. Involved in attachment of mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore; microtubule cytoskeleton organization; and regulation of chromosome segregation. Located in chromosome, centromeric region and microtubule plus-...
LDHC: Predicted to enable L-lactate dehydrogenase activity. Predicted to be involved in pyruvate catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within ATP biosynthetic process; flagellated sperm motility; and lactate metaboli...
LPIN1: Enables phosphatidate phosphatase activity. Involved in phosphatidic acid metabolic process and triglyceride biosynthetic process. Is active in cytosol and endoplasm...
MAP7: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in microtubule cytoskeleton organization; protein localization to plasma membrane; and response to osmotic stress. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including glycosphingolipid metabolic process; male gonad development...
MAST2: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; regulation of interleukin-12 production; and spermatid differentiation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm; cytoskeleton; and pla...
MEP1B: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in inflammatory response and proteolysis. Predicted to act upstream of or within toxin transport. Located i...
MLF1: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulation of cell cycle G1/S phas...
MLLT10: Enables histone binding activity and nucleosome binding activity. Involved in histone H3-K27 methylation and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Impl...
MTNR1A: Enables hormone binding activity; melatonin receptor activity; and organic cyclic compound binding activity. Involved in adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. Located in plasma membrane. Par...
MTOR: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase III cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; TFIIIC-class transcription factor complex binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including TORC1 signaling; positive regulation of biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of cell migration. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of macroautophagy and protein autophosphorylation. Located in endomembrane system; lysosomal membrane; and phagocytic vesicle. Part of TORC1 complex; TORC2 complex; and nuclear envelope. Implicated in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease; kidney angiomyolipoma; lung disease (multiple); pr...
NAA11: Enables peptide alpha-N-acetyltransferase activity. Involved in N-terminal protein amino acid acetylation. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; centr...
NCAPH: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosome condensation and positive regulation of chromosome condensation. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Part of condensin complex. Implicated in primary autosomal reces...
NEFH: Enables protein kinase binding activity. A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involved in axon development; neurofilament bundle assembly; and regulation of organelle transport along microtubule. Located in cytoplasm; cytoskeleton; and neurofibrillary tangle. Implicated in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease axonal type 2CC; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 1; and monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance. ...
NEK2: Enables protein kinase activity and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including centrosome separation; positive regulation of DNA metabolic process; and regulation of cell cycle process. Located in centrosome and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing comp...
NF2: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Schwann cell proliferation; positive regulation of stress fiber assembly; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including early endosome; nucleolus; and perinuclear region of cytoplasm. Implicated in gastrointestinal system cancer (multiple); malignant pleural mesothelioma; meningioma (multiple); neurilemmoma (multiple); and neurofibromatosis 2. Bio...
NOS1: Enables nitric-oxide synthase activity. Involved in several processes, including multicellular organismal response to stress; positive regulation of peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and vasodilation. Located in nucleoplasm; sarcolemma; and sarcoplasmic reticulum. Implicated in Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease; asthma; cystic fibrosis; and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Biomarker of Duchenne muscular dyst...
NPHP1: Involved in positive regulation of bicellular tight junction assembly. Located in cell-cell junction and motile cilium. Implicated in Bardet-Biedl syndrome; Joubert syndrome 4; Senior-Loken sy...
NPY5R: Predicted to enable neuropeptide binding activity; pancreatic polypeptide receptor activity; and peptide YY receptor activity. Involved in cardiac left ventricle morphogenesis and outflow tract morphogenesis. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and synapse. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including GABA-ergic synapse; neuron projection; and presynaps...
OAZ3: Enables ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of polyamine transmembrane transport and positive regulation of protein...
ODF1: Predicted to enable protein domain specific binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell differentiation and sperm...
PACRG: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity; heat shock protein binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell death....
PAPOLB: Predicted to enable several functions, including ATP binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and nucleotidyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involved in mRNA polyadenylation. Predicted to be located in end...
PARP2: Enables several functions, including nucleosome binding activity; pentosyltransferase activity; and poly-ADP-D-ribose binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process; histone modification; and post-translational protein modification. Located ...
PCSK1N: Predicted to enable endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidase activity and neuropeptide signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within peptide hormone processing; response to cold; and response to dietary excess. Predicted to be located in extracellular region; secretory granule; and trans-Golgi network....
PCSK4: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in protein processing. Predicted to be located in acrosomal membrane. Predicted to be active in Golgi membrane and trans-Golgi ...
PDHA2: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Involved in pyruvate metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion and nucleolus. ...
PEBP1: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of MAPK cascade. Predicted to act upstream of or within sperm capacitation. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus. Implicated in prostate c...
PGK2: Predicted to enable ADP binding activity; ATP binding activity; and phosphoglycerate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in gluconeogenesis; glycolytic process; and phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within flagellated s...
PGS1: Predicted to enable CDP-diacylglycerol-glycerol-3-phosphate 3-phosphatidyltransferase activity and calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cardiolipin biosynthetic process and diacylglycerol...
PHF7: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus...
PHKG2: Predicted to enable enzyme activator activity. Predicted to be involved in glycogen metabolic process; positive regulation of glycogen catabolic process; and protein phosphorylation. Located in cytosol. Implicated in glycogen storage ...
PIAS2: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity and SUMO ligase activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity; negative regulation of androgen receptor signaling pathway; and protei...
POMC: Enables hormone activity and melanocortin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including killing of cells of another organism; positive regulation of neutrophil mediated killing of fungus; and regulation of gene expression. Located in extracellular space and peroxisomal matrix. Implicated in familial Mediterranean...
PRKAR2A: Enables cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity. Located in centrosome; cytoplasm; and plasma membrane raft. Part of cAMP-dependent protein kinase complex and nucleotide-activated prot...
PRM2: Enables cadmium ion binding activity and zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleus organization and spermatid...
PSMG1: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in chaperone-mediated protein complex assembly. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum; and nucleo...
RAD17: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in mitotic intra-S DNA damage checkpoint signaling; negative regulation of DNA replication; and regulation of phosphorylation. Located in nucleolus and nucle...
RFC4: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicase activity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of Ctf18 RFC-like complex; DNA r...
RPL39L: Predicted to be a structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in ribosome. Predicted to be part o...
SCG3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein localization to secretory granule. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen; extracellular region; and secretory granule lumen. ...
SCG5: Enables unfolded protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular protein transport; peptide hormone processing; and regulation of hormone secretion. Predicted to be located in sec...
SEPTIN4: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway and positive regulation of protein ubiquitination. Located in mitochondrion; nucleoplasm; and sperm annulus. Part ...
SHE: Predicted to enable phosphotyrosine residue bind...
SIRT1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; HLH domain binding activity; and histone modifying activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of gene expression. Located in several cellular components, including chromatin; nuclear inner membrane; and nuclear lumen. Part of chromatin silencing complex. Colocalizes with ESC/E(Z) complex. Implicated in Huntington's disease. Biomarker of se...
SLC12A2: Enables several functions, including Hsp90 protein binding activity; inorganic cation transmembrane transporter activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including inorganic cation transmembrane transport; transepithelial ammonium transport; and transepithelial chloride transport. Located in extracellular exosome. Part of several cellular components, including apical plasma membrane; basal plasma membrane; and lateral plasma membrane. Is active i...
SLC2A5: Enables fructose transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in fructose import across plasma membrane. ...
SNAP91: Predicted to enable several functions, including SNARE binding activity; clathrin binding activity; and phosphatidylinositol binding activity. Acts upstream of or within regulation of clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including postsynaptic density; presynaptic endosome; and synaptic membrane. Predicted to be extrinsic component of endosome membrane. Predicted to be active in several cellular components, including Schaffer collateral - CA1 synapse; cytoplasmic vesicle; and parallel fibe...
SPATA6: Predicted to enable myosin light chain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in motile cilium assembly and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and motile cilium. ...
STAM2: Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol binding activity and ubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. ...
STRBP: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell differentiation and spermatogenesis. Predicted to act upstream of or within mechanosensory behavior and ...
SYCP1: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in protein homotetramerization. Predicted to be located in synaptonemal complex. Predicted to be active in central element; ma...
TALDO1: Enables transaldolase activity. Predicted to be involved in pentose-phosphate shunt, non-oxidative branch. Located in extracellular exosome and nucleus. Implic...
TCP11: Involved in germ cell development. Located in acrosomal vesicle and...
TEKT2: Predicted to be involved in cilium assembly and cilium movement involved in cell motility. Predicted to act upstream of or within flagellated sperm motility and inne...
THEG: Predicted to be involved in spermatogenesis. Predicted to be loc...
TKTL1: Predicted to enable thiamine pyrophosphate binding activity and transketolase activity. Predicted to be involved in glucose catabolic process and thiamine...
TLE4: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including DNA-templated transcription; cellular response to leukemia inhibitory factor; and negative regulation of transcripti...
TNNI3: Enables several functions, including calcium channel inhibitor activity; calcium-dependent protein binding activity; and cytoskeletal protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cardiac muscle contraction; regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling; and ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis. Located in cardiac myofibril. Part of cardiac Tropo...
TNP1: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including chromatin remodeling; single strand break repair; and spermatid nucl...
TNP2: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including penetration of zona pellucida; positive regulation of protein processing; and sperm DNA condensation. Predicted to act upstream of or within binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida and flagellated sperm motility. Predicted to be located in male ...
TOPBP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response and response to ionizing radiation. Located in several cellular components, including ac...
TSN: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in siRNA processing. Located in endoplasmic reticulum; endoribonucl...
TSSK2: Enables magnesium ion binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in protein autophospho...
TTK: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of metaphase/anaphase transition of cell cycle; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and protein localization to kinetochore. Predicted to act upstream of or within female meiosis chromosome segregation; protein localization...
TUBA3C: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Predicted to be involved in microtubule cytoskeleton organization and mitotic ce...
TULP2: Predicted to be involved in protein localization to cilium. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm and extracellular region. P...
VDAC3: Predicted to enable voltage-gated monoatomic anion channel activity. Predicted to be involved in adenine transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within behavioral fear response; learning; and neuron-neuron synapti...
YBX2: Predicted to enable several functions, including chromatin binding activity; mRNA 3'-UTR binding activity; and ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis and regulation of gene expression. Predicted to act upstream of or within germ cell development; negative regulation of binding activity; and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression....
ZC2HC1C: Predicted to enable metal ion binding...
ZC3H14: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of mRNA polyadenylation and regulation of mRNA stability. Located in neuron projection cytoplasm and nuclear lumen. Part of ribonucleoprotein complex. Implicated i...
ZNRF4: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane....
ZPBP: Predicted to be involved in acrosome assembly and binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida. Located in acrosomal vesicle. Imp...
////
A2M: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; cytokine binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity. Involved in negative regulation of complement activation, lectinpathway. Located in blood microparticle and extracellula...
ACOX2: Enables 3alpha,7alpha,12alpha-trihydroxy-5beta-cholestanoyl-CoA 24-hydroxylaseactivity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA oxidase; positiveregulatio...
ADAM9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; integrinbinding activity; and metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursorprotein catabolic process. Involved in several processes, including cell-celladhesion mediated by integrin; positive regulation of keratinocyte migration;and p...
ANG: Enables several functions, including actin binding activity; heparinbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of protein kinase B activity; defense responseto other organism; and positive regulation of phospholipase activity. Actsupstream of or within angiogenesis. Located in several cellular components,including actin cytoskeleton; basem...
ANXA1: Enables calcium-dependent phospholipid binding activity; calcium-dependentprotein binding activity; and phospholipase A2 inhibitor activity. Involvedin several processes, including leukocyte chemotaxis; regulation of T cellactivation; and regulation of vesicle-mediated transport. Located in severalcellular components, including cell surface; cornified envel...
APOA1: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;cholesterol binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Contributesto cholesterol transfer activity. Involved in several processes, includinglipid transport; positive regulation of transport; and regulation of Rho proteinsignal transduction. Acts upstream of or within cholesterol transport. Locatedin endocytic vesicle and extracellular space. Part of spherical high-densitylip...
APOC1: Enables fatty acid binding activity and phospholipase inhibitor activity.Involved in several processes, including lipid transport; negative regulationof lipid metabolic process; and negative regulation of transport. Locatedin endoplasmic reticulum. Part o...
APOC2: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;lipase activator activity; and phospholipase binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including lipid transport; positive regulation of lipaseactivity; and regulation of lipid metabolic process. Located in extracellularspace. Part of several cellular components, including low-density lipoproteinpar...
APOC3: Enables high-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity;lipase inhibitor activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including lipid transport; negative regulation of lipidmetabolic process; and negative regulation of lipoprotein particle clearance.Located in extracellular space. Part of chylomicron; spherical high-densitylipoprotein particle; and triglyceride-rich plasm...
ARF4: Enables GTP binding activity; NAD+-protein-arginine ADP-ribosyltransferaseactivity; and epidermal growth factor receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including activation of phospholipase D activity; positiveregulatio...
BMP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and peptidase activity. Involvedin proteolysis. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cartilagedevel...
C1QA: Predicted to enable amyloid-beta binding activity. Involved in complementactivation, classical pathway. Located in com...
C1R: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase a...
C1S: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in complement activation, classical ...
C2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in complement activation and positive regulation of apoptoticcell clearance. Located in classical-complement-pathway C3/C...
C3: Enables C5L2 anaphylatoxin chemotactic receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including opsonization; positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in extracellularspace; plasma membrane; and serine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicatedin several diseases, incl...
C8A: Predicted to enable complement binding activity. Acts upstream of orwithin complement activation. Located in blood micropart...
C8B: Predicted to be involved in complement activation. Located in extracellularexosome. Part...
C8G: Predicted to enable complement binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin complement activation, alternati...
C9: Involved in cell killing and protein homooligomerization. Located in extracellularspace and plasma membrane. Part of membrane attack complex. Impli...
CAPN2: Enables calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involvedin proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process. Located in several cellularcomp...
CAPN5: Predicted to enable calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.Predicted to be involved ...
CASP9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV; intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulationof cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Located in caspase complex and cytosol.Par...
CD9: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingfusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization; glialcell migration; and negative regulation of platelet aggregation. Located inextracellular exosome....
CFB: Predicted to enable complement binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in complement activation and response tobacterium. Predicted to act upstream of or within complement activation, alternativepathway. Located in plasma membrane. Implicated in several diseases, includingatypi...
CFD: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted tobe involved in complement activation and proteolysis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including compleme...
CFH: Enables heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity; heparin bindingactivity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in complement activation;proteolysis; and regulation of complement activation, alternative pathway.Acts upstream of or within regulation of complement activation and regulationof complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Locate...
CFI: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in proteolysisand regulation of complement activation, alternative pathway. Located in serine-typeendopeptidase complex. Implicated in Kuhnt...
CLU: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and misfolded protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcellular component organization; regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in several cellularcomponents, including apical dendrite; neurofibrillary tangle; and perinuclearendoplasmic ...
COMP: Enables several functions, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan bindingactivity; heparin binding activity; and protease binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cartilage homeostasis; limb development; andprotein homo...
CPB2: Predicted to enable metallocarboxypeptidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in fibrinolysis and proteolysis. Located in extracellular exosome.Impl...
CPN1: Predicted to enable metallocarboxypeptidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in peptide metabolic process and protein processing. Predict...
CPQ: Enables metallodipeptidase activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in pepti...
CRIP2: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to act upstreamof or within hemopoiesis a...
CSRP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in ...
CTSB: Enables collagen binding activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activity;and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to thyroid hormone stimulus; collagen catabolic process;and negative regulation of peptidase activity. Located in several cellularcomponents, including lysosome; peptidase in...
CTSE: Enables aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in antigen processingand presentat...
CTSH: Enables several functions, including HLA-A specific activating MHC classI receptor activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involvedin apoptotic process; and peptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including peptide catabolic process; positive regulation of macromoleculemet...
CTSK: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; fibronectinbinding activity; and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in proteolysisinvolved in protein catabolic process and thyroid hor...
CTSO: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predictedto be involved in proteolysis in...
CTSV: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predictedto be involved in immune response and proteolysis involved in protein catabol...
DCT: Predicted to enable dopachrome isomerase activity. Involved in responseto blue light. Located in int...
DPP4: Enables several functions, including chemorepellent activity; peptidaseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of extracellular matrix disassembly; negativeregulation of neutrophil chemotaxis; and regula...
DUSP14: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be in...
DUSP6: Enables MAP kinase tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2cascade; peptidyl-tyrosine dephosphoryla...
F10: Enables phospholipid binding activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in positive regulation of protein kinase B sign...
F11: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in blood coagulation,intrinsic pathway; plasminogen activation; and positive regulation of fibrinolysis....
F12: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of plasminogen activation; protein maturation;and regulation of blood coagulation. Located in extracellular space. Partof collagen-contain...
F13B: Involved in blood coagulation, fibrin clot formation and peptide ...
F2: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; lipopolysaccharidebinding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; defense response to other organism;and regulation of blood coagulation. Located in extracellular space and serine-typeendopeptidase complex. Colocalizes with external side of plasma membrane.Im...
F2RL2: Predicted to enable several functions, including enzyme activator activity;ion channel regulator activity; and proteinase-activated receptor activity.Predicted to be involved in ...
F3: Enables phospholipid binding activity and protease binding activity. Contributesto serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingactivation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process;activation of plasma proteins involved in acute inflammatory response; andpositive regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within positiveregulation of interleukin-8 production. Located in several cellu...
F8: Predicted to enable copper ion binding activity and oxidoreductase activity.Involved in proteolysis. Located in protein-conta...
F9: Enables calcium ion binding activity and endopeptidase activity. Involvedin blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; sequestering of metal ion; and zymogenactivation. Located in extracellular space; membrane; and protein-cont...
FBN1: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. An extracellularmatrix structural constituent. Involved in several processes, including activationof protein kinase A activity; eye development; and negative regulation ofosteoclast developm...
FGA: Enables structural molecule activity. Contributes to cell adhesion moleculebinding activity and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; negative regulation of apoptotic process;and positive regulation of secretion by cell. Located in several cellularcomponents, including endoplasm...
FGG: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity; signaling receptor bindingactivity; and structural molecule activity. Involved in several processes,including blood coagulation; negative regulation of apoptotic process; andpositive regulation of secretion by cell...
FN1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; identical protein binding activity; and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including integrin activation; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Locatedin collagen-containing extracellular matrix; endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediatecompartment; and extracel...
FURIN: Enables several functions, including glycosaminoglycan binding activity;nerve growth factor binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including protein processing; regulation ofprotein metabolic process; and regulati...
FYN: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cellreceptor signaling pathway;...
GDA: Predicted to enable guanine deaminase activity and zinc ion binding activity.Predicted to be involved in amide catabolic process; guanine me...
GNB2: Enables GTPase binding activity. Involved in regulation of potassiumion transmemb...
GNG12: Enables PDZ domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in Gprotei...
GP1BA: Predicted to enable thrombin-activated receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; fibrinolysis;and positive regulation of platelet activation. Acts upstream of or withinblood coagulation and cell adhesion. Located in glycoprotein Ib-IX-V complex.Colocalizes with external side o...
GP9: Involved in blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; positive regulationof platelet activation; and release of sequest...
GSN: Enables calcium ion binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity;and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin filament organization; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic proc...
HMGCS2: Enables hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase activity and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA metabolic process and ketone...
HNF4A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity; fatty acid binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including blood coagulation; ornithine metabolicprocess; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Acts upstream of orwithin positive regulation...
HPN: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation by host of viral transcription; positive regulationof plasminogen acti...
HRG: Enables several functions, including heme binding activity; heparan sulfateproteoglycan binding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including defense response to other organism; negative regulationof lamellipodium ass...
HTRA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and molecular function activatoractivity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of apoptotic process;programmed cell death; and proteolysis. Predicted to act upstream of or withinchorionic trophoblast cell differentiation; negative regulation of transmembranereceptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway; and placenta development.Lo...
ISCU: Enables molecular adaptor activity; protein homodimerization activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including [2Fe-2S]cluster assembly; negative regulation of iron ion import across plasma membran...
ITGA2: Enables collagen binding activity involved in cell-matrix adhesionand collagen receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including celladhesion mediated by integrin; cell surface receptor signaling pathway; andmesodermal cell differentiation. Located in cell surface; focal adhesion;and plasma mem...
ITGB3: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;protein disulfide isomerase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including apolipoprotein A-I-mediatedsignaling pathway; negative regulation of lipid localization; and positiveregulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negativeregulation of low-density lipoprotein receptor activity. Located in severalcellular components, including cell projection membrane; focal adhesion; andmelanosome. Pa...
ITIH1: Enables carbohydrate binding activity and hyaluronic acid binding activity.Predicted to be involved in hyaluronan metabolic process and negative regulationof endopeptidase activity. Pr...
KLF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulatio...
KLK8: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including keratinocyte proliferation; negative regulationof axon regeneration; a...
KLKB1: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved inblood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; plasminogen activation; and positiveregulation of fibr...
LAMP2: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofprotein-containing complex assembly; protein catabolic process; and regulationof protein stability. Located in several cellular components, inclu...
LEFTY2: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Predicted to be involved inBMP signaling pathway; SMAD protein signal transduction; and p...
LGMN: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to amyloid-beta; positive regulation of chemotaxis;and p...
LRP1: Enables alpha-2 macroglobulin receptor activity; apolipoprotein bindingactivity; and clathrin heavy chain binding activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; amyloid-betaclearance...
LTA4H: Enables ether hydrolase activity; metalloaminopeptidase activity; andzinc ion binding activity. Involved in leukotriene...
MAFF: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin pos...
MASP2: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; complement component C4b binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidaseac...
MBL2: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; identical protein binding activity; and mannose binding activity.Involved in several processes, including antiviral innate immune response;cell surface pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway; and positiveregulation of opsonization. Acts upstream of or within complement activation,lectin pathway and defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. Located inext...
MEP1A: Enables metallodipeptidase activity. Involved in epidermal growth factorreceptor ligand maturati...
MMP1: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in cellular responseto UV-A; positive regulation of protein-containing complex assembly; and proteolysis.Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be part of collagentrimer. Implicated in several diseases, including artery disease (multiple);female reproductive organ ...
MMP10: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in collagen catabolic process and extracellular matrix organization.Predicted to act upstream of or within regu...
MMP11: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in collagen catabolic process and extracellular matrix organization.Predicted to act upstrea...
MMP14: Enables endopeptidase activity and metalloaminopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including endodermal cell differentiation;regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; and zymogen activation.Located in several cellular components, including extracellular space; intermediat...
MMP15: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in endodermalcell differentiation. Predic...
MMP2: Enables metallopeptidase activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; endodermalcell differentiation; and positive regulation of vascular associated smoothmuscle cell proliferation. Located in extracellular space. Colocalizes withcollagen-containing extra...
MMP3: Enables endopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; negative regulationof hydrogen peroxide metabolic process; and positive regulation of protein-containingcomplex assembly. Predicted to be located in cytosol and mitochondrion. Implicatedin sev...
MMP7: Enables endopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. Involvedin positive regulation of cell migration and proteolysis. Acts upstream ofor within membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis and ...
MMP8: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in endodermal celldifferentiation and proteolysis. Located in extracellular space. Implicatedin breast cancer and...
MMP9: Enables identical protein binding activity; metalloendopeptidase activity;and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to UV-A; negative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway;and positive regulation of keratinocyte migration. Located in extracellularspace. Implicated in several dise...
MSRB2: Predicted to enable actin binding activity; peptide-methionine (R)-S-oxidereductase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be in...
MST1: Enables receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of gluconeogenesis and regulation of cAM...
OLR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including leukocyte cell-cell adhesion; lipoproteinmetabolic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation.Predicted to a...
P2RY1: Enables ATP binding activity and G protein-coupled ADP receptor activity.Involved in cellular response to purine-containing compound; phosph...
PDGFB: Enables several functions, including platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; protein dimerization activity; and receptor ligand activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration;positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cell surface and platelet-derivedgrowth factor complex....
PECAM1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including bicellular tight junction assembly; cellular extravasation; andendothelium development. Located in cell-cell junction; extracellular space;and plasma membrane. Part of protein-containing complex. Implica...
PEF1: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; protein heterodimerization activity; and ubiquitin ligase-substrateadaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including ...
PF4: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and heparin bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to ...
PLAT: Enables phosphoprotein binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofproteolysis and plasminogen activation. Located in cell surface; cytoplasm;and serine protease inhibitor complex. Implicated in several diseases, includingantiphospholipid syndro...
PLAU: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including plasminogen activation; regulation of cell adhesionmediated by integrin; and regulation of smooth muscle cell-matrix adhesion.Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell migration. Locatedin several cellular components, including protein complex involved in cell-matrixadhesion; serine protease in...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase C binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including G pro...
PLG: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;protein antigen binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including extracellular matrix disassembly;positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration; and regulationof blood coagulation. Located...
PREP: Predicted to enable oligopeptidase activity. Predicte...
PROC: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of blood coagulation; negative regulation ofinflammatory response; and positive regulation of establishment of endothelialbarrier. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus;endoplasmic reticulum; and serine-type endopeptid...
PROS1: Predicted to enable endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted tobe involved in blood coagulation. Located in extracellular space. Implicatedin autosomal domin...
PROZ: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involve...
PRSS23: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Pre...
RABIF: Enables zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in post-Golgive...
RAC1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTPase activity;and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including plasmamembrane bounded cell projection assembly; positive regulation of cellularcomponent biogenesis; and regulation of cell migration. Acts upstream of orwithin actin cytoskeleton organization; positive regulation of lamellipodiumassembly; and ruffle organization. Located in several cellular components,including recycling endosome mem...
RAPGEF3: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of protein modification process; regulation of actin cytoskeletonorganization...
RGN: Enables calcium ion binding activity; gluconolactonase activity; andzinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes,including L-ascorbic acid biosynthetic...
S100A1: Enables ATPase binding activity; S100 protein binding activity; andprotein homodimerization activity. Involved in positive regulation of nitric-oxidesynthase activit...
S100A13: Enables several functions, including RAGE receptor binding activity;fibroblast growth factor binding activity; and metal ion binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kapp...
SERPINA1: Enables identical protein binding activity; protease binding activity;and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involvedin negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Located in Golgi apparatus;endoplasmic reticulum; and extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases,including alpha 1-antitr...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity.Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidase activity.P...
SERPINC1: Enables identical protein binding activity and protease bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidaseactivity. Located in extracellular space. Part of collagen-containing extracellularmatrix. Implicated in an...
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis;and response to bacterium. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix;extracellular exosome; and serine protease inhibitor complex. Implicated in...
SERPING1: Enables serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved innegative regulation of complement activation, lectin pathway. Located in bloodmicroparticle and extracellular exosome. Part of collagen-containing extracellularmatrix. Implicated in several di...
SH2B2: Enables SH2 domain binding activity and signaling adaptor activity.Involved i...
SIRT2: Enables several functions, including acyltransferase activity, transferringgroups other than amino-acyl groups; enzyme binding activity; and proteinlysine deacetylase activity. Involved in several processes, ...
SPARC: Enables calcium ion binding activity and collagen binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of angiogenesis;negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and positive regulationof endothelial cell migration. Located in cell surface; nucle...
TF: Enables ferrous iron binding activity; iron chaperone activity; and transferrinreceptor binding activity. Involved in cellular response to iron ion; positiveregulation of receptor-mediated endocytosis; and regulation of iron ion transport.Located in several cellular components, including basal plasma membrane; cytoplasmicvesicle; and dense body. Is extrinsic...
TFPI2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predictedto be involved in blood coagulation; cellular response to fluid shear stress;and negative regulation of endo...
THBD: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and signaling receptoractivity. Predicted to be involved in blood coagulation; negative regulationof fibrinolysis; and negative regulation of platelet activation. Predictedto act upstream of or within female pregnancy. Located in cell surface andserine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicated in several diseas...
THBS1: Enables several functions, including collagen V binding activity; fibrinogenbinding activity; and fibroblast growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of cell migration; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation of endothelial cellchemotaxis; negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and negativeregulation of nitric oxide me...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV-A; negative regulation of proteolysis; and negative regulat...
TIMP3: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and proteasebinding activity. Involved in negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade;negative regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis; and positiveregulation of TRAIL-activated apoptotic signaling pathway. Located in nucleus.Colocalizes with collagen-...
TMPRSS6: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in membraneprotein proteolysis; negative regulation of DNA-template...
USP11: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity; cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity; and transcription corepressor b...
VWF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity.Involved in cell-substrate adhesion; platelet activation; and positive regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Located in several cellular components,including Weibel-Palade body; collagen-containing extracellular matrix; and...
WDR1: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Involved in apicaljunction assembly; maintenance of epithelial cell api...
////
AAAS: Involved in microtubule bundle formation and mitotic spindle assembly.Acts upstream of or within nucleocytoplasmic transport. Located in cytosol;microtubule cyt...
ADA: Enables 2''-deoxyadenosine deaminase activity; adenosine deaminase activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negativeregulation of adenosine receptor signaling pathway; nucleobase-containingsmall molecule metabolic process; and regulation of cell-cell adhesion mediatedby integrin. Acts upstream of or within adenosine catabolic process and inosinebiosynthetic process. Located in cytosol; external side of plasma membrane;and lysosome. Implica...
ADCY6: Enables adenylate cyclase activity and protein kinase C binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cAMP biosynthetic process; cellularresponse to alcohol; and dopamine receptor signaling pathway. Predicte...
ADRM1: Enables several functions, including endopeptidase activator activity;molecular function inhibitor activity; and proteasome binding activity. Involvedin proteasome assembly and transcription elo...
AGO4: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; miRNA binding activity;and single-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in RNA secondary structureunwinding and negative regulation of gene expressi...
AK1: Enables adenylate kinase activity and nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.Involved in nucleoside triphosphate biosynthetic process. Located in cytosol.Implica...
AK3: Enables nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase activity. Involved inribonucleotide metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion...
ALYREF: Enables C5-methylcytidine-containing RNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including mRNA export from nucleus; regulation of nucleobase-containingcompound metabolic process; and viral mRNA export from host cell nucleus.Located in cytoplasm and nuclear sp...
APRT: Enables AMP binding activity and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase activity.Predicted to be involved in AMP salvage and adenine salvage. Predicted toact upstream of or within adenine metabolic process; grooming behavior; an...
ARL6IP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in endoplasmicreticulum tubular network organization; negative regulation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; and regulation of endoplasmicreticulum tubular network organiza...
BCAM: Enables laminin binding activity and laminin receptor activity. Involvedin cell-matrix adhesion. Located in col...
BCAP31: Predicted to enable MHC class I protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling using intracellularcalcium source; intracellular calcium ion homeostasis; and positive regulationof proteolysis. Located in several cellular components, including lipid droplet;mitochondr...
BOLA2: Predicted to enable iron-sulfur cluster binding activity. Involvedin [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; cell redox homeostasis; and protein maturationby iron...
BRF2: Enables RNA polymerase III type 3 promoter sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity. Involved in cellular response to oxidative stress and regulation...
CANT1: Enables calcium ion binding activity; nucleoside diphosphate phosphataseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in proteoglycanbiosynthetic process. Located in...
CCNO: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Involved in cilium assembly; mitotic cell cycle; and multi-ciliatedepithelial cell...
CDA: Enables several functions, including cytidine deaminase activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cytidinedeamination; negative regulation of cell growth; and negative regulation...
CETN2: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Involved in centriolereplication; nucleotide-excision repair; and regulation of cytokinesis. Locatedin centriole and c...
CLP1: Enables ATP-dependent polyribonucleotide 5''-hydroxyl-kinase activity.Involved in cerebellar cortex development; negative regulation of gene expression;and tRNA splicing, via endonucleolytic cleavage and ligation. Loc...
CMPK2: Enables UMP kinase activity; cytidylate kinase activity; and nucleosidediphosphate kinase activity. Involved in nucleoside triphosphate biosynthetic...
COX17: Enables copper chaperone activity and cuprous ion binding activity.Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidaseassembly; positive regulation of cyto...
CSTF3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in RNA 3''-e...
DAD1: Enables enzyme activator activity. Involved in protein N-linked glycosylationand regulation of protein stability. Lo...
DCTN4: Located in cen...
DDB1: Enables WD40-repeat domain binding activity; cullin family protein bindingactivity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Contributes to damagedDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including UV-damage excisionrepair; histone H2A monoubiquitination; and positive regulation by virus ofviral protein levels in host cell....
DDB2: Contributes to damaged DNA binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferaseactivity. Involved in DNA repair and protein ubiquitination. Located in celljunction and nucleoplasm. Part of Cul4B-RING E3 ubiquitin...
DGCR8: Enables several functions, including RNA binding activity; heme bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Acts upstream of or withinprimar...
DGUOK: Enables deoxyguanosine kinase activity. Involved in dAMP salvage andpurine deoxyribonucleoside metabolic process. Located in nucleus. Is activein mitochondrion. Implicated in autosomal recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegiaw...
DUT: Enables dUTP diphosphatase activity. Involved in dTMP biosynthetic process.L...
EDF1: Enables TFIID-class transcription factor complex binding activity andtranscription coactivator activity. Involved in positive regulat...
EIF1B: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in translationalinitiation. Predicte...
ELL: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof DNA-templated transcription and snRNA transcription. Located in cytosol...
ELOA: Predicted to enable translation elongation factor activity. Involvedin transcription initiation at RNA polymerase II...
ERCC1: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; protein domain specific bindingactivity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to 3'' overhangsingle-stranded DNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity and DNA binding activity.Involved in DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of protection fromnon-homologous end joining at telomere; and response to oxidative stress.Acts upstream of or within DNA recombination and nucleotide-excision repair.Located in chromosome, telomeric region and nucleoplasm. Part of ERCC4-ERCC1complex and nucleotide-excision repair factor 1 complex. Implicated in sever...
ERCC2: Enables 5''-3'' DNA helicase activity and protein-macromolecule adaptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including hair cell differentiation;nucleic acid metabolic process; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle phasetransition. Acts upstream of or within UV protection. Located in cytosol;nucleoplasm; and spindle. Part of CAK-ERCC2 complex; MMXD complex; and RNApolymerase II transcription regulator complex. Implicated in ...
ERCC3: Enables 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and ATP hydrolysis activity.Involved in several processes, including hair cell differentiation; nucleicacid metabolic process; and response to UV. Located in nucleoplasm. Part oftranscription factor TFIID complex; transcription factor TFIIH core complex;and transcription factor TFIIH holo complex. Implicated in lung non-smal...
ERCC4: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes to 3'' overhang single-strandedDNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity and DNA binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; negative regulation of double-strandedtelomeric DNA binding activity; and negative regulation of telomere maintenance.Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-excision repair. Located in chromosome,telomeric region an...
ERCC5: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; RNA polymeraseII complex binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including DNA repair; negative regulation of apoptoticprocess; and response to UV-C. Acts upstream of or within UV protection. Locatedin nucleus. Part of nucleotide-excision repair complex. Colocalizes w...
ERCC8: Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA repair; protein ubiquitination; and regulationof DNA repair. Acts upstream of or within transcription-coupled nucleotide-excisionrepair. Located in nuclear matrix. Part of Cul...
FEN1: Enables DNA binding activity and nuclease activity. Involved in DNAreplication, removal of RNA primer; nucleic acid phosphodiester bond hydrolysis;and positive regulation of sister chromatid cohesion. Located in mitochondrion;nucle...
GMPR2: Enables GMP reductase activity. Involved in GMP metabolic process.Predicted to be located in c...
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity;and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved inarachidonic acid metabolic process; lipoxygenase pathway; and protein polymerization.Located in cytosol. Part of protein-containing complex....
GSDME: Enables cardiolipin binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity; and wide pore channel activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to tumor necrosis factor; granzyme-mediated programmedcell death signaling pathway; and positive regulation ...
GTF2A2: Enables RNA polymerase II general transcription initiation factoractivity; general transcription initiation factor binding activity; and proteindimerization activity. Involved in RNA polymerase II preinitiation complexassembly and positive regulation of transcription in...
GTF2B: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II core promotersequence-specific DNA binding activity; RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; and TBP-class protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including RNA polymerase II core complex assembly; positiveregulation of core promoter binding...
GTF2F1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; phosphatase activator activity; and promoter-specificchromatin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; res...
GTF2H1: Enables nuclear thyroid hormone receptor binding activity. Involvedin positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription and transcription byRNA polymerase II. Located in nucl...
GTF2H3: Enables RNA polymerase II general transcription initiation factoractivity. Involved in transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm.Part of core TFIIH complex porti...
GTF2H5: Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-excision repair. Located innucleolus. Part of transcription factor TFII...
GTF3C5: Enables RNA polymerase III general transcription initiation factoractivity. Predicted to be involved in 5S class rRNA transcription by RNA polymeraseIII and tRNA transcription by RNA polymerase III. Predicted to act ups...
GUK1: Enables guanylate kinase activity. Involved in dGDP biosynthetic processand xenobiotic metabolic process. Predicted to be loc...
HCLS1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction;positive regulation of protein phospho...
HPRT1: Enables identical protein binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity;and purine phosphoribosyltransferase activity. Involved in nucleobase-containingsmall molecule metabolic process; positive regulation of dopamine metaboli...
IMPDH2: Enables IMP dehydrogenase activity and nucleotide binding activity.Involved in GTP biosynthetic proc...
ITPA: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin nucleoside triphosphate catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream ofor within ITP catabolic process and chromosome organization. Located in cytosoland nucleoplasm. Implicated in seve...
LIG1: Enables DNA ligase activity. Involved in base-excision repair. Locatedin nucleoplasm. Implicated in inher...
MPC2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin mitochondrial pyruvate transmembrane transport. Predicted to act upstreamof or within positive regulation of insu...
MPG: Predicted to enable alkylbase DNA N-glycosylase activity. Predicted tobe involved in base-...
MRPL40: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in anatomicalstructure morphogenesis. Located in mitochondr...
NCBP2: Enables nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes,including mRNA export from nucleus; mRNA metabolic process; and positive regulationof mRNA 3''-end processing. Located in ...
NELFB: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription elongation by RNA polymera...
NELFCD: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II. ...
NELFE: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in localization; negative regulationof mRNA polyadenylation; and negative regulation of transcription elongationb...
NFX1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in negativereg...
NME1: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity; and purine ribonucleoside triphosphatebinding activity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA binding activityand positive regulation of epithelial cell proliferation. Located in cytosol;nucleus; and ruffle m...
NME3: Predicted to enable nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Predictedto be involved in ap...
NME4: Enables cardiolipin binding activity. Involved in lipid transport. Loca...
NPR2: Enables guanylate cyclase activity; natriuretic peptide receptor activity;and peptide hormone binding activity. Involved in cellular response to granulocytemacrophage colony-stimulating factor stimulus and receptor guanylyl cyclasesignaling pathway. Loca...
NT5C: Enables identical protein binding activity; nucleotidase activity; andpyrimidine nucleotide binding activity. Involved in dephosphorylation and...
NT5C3A: Enables 5''-nucleotidase activity. Involved in defense response tovirus. Located in c...
NUDT21: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity; mRNA 3''-UTR AU-richregion binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto RNA binding activity. Involved in pre-mRNA cleavage required for polyadenylation;protein-containing complex assembly; and regulation ...
NUDT9: Enables ADP-ribose diphosphatase activity. Predicted to be involvedin nucleobase-containing small molecule metabolic process. Predicted to actupstream of or within ADP c...
PCNA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; MutLalphacomplex binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA repair; cellular response to UV; and positive regulationof DNA metabolic process. Located in centrosome; chromatin; and nuclear lumen.Part of P...
PDE4B: Enables 3'',5''-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and cAMP bindingactivity. Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof interleukin-2 production; and positive regulation of type II interferonproduction. Predicted to be located in Z d...
PDE6G: Predicted to enable enzyme inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway andpositive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway.Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation of MAPK cascade.Predic...
PNP: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;phosphate ion binding activity; and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase activity.Involved in several processes, including allantoin metabolic process; nucleobase-containingsmall molecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of interleukin-2production. Acts upstream of or within inosine cat...
POLA1: Enables several functions, including DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity;chromatin binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in DNAmetabolic process and regulation of type I interferon production. Locatedin cytosol; nuclear envelope; and nuclear lumen. Part...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA replicationinitiation and DNA replication, synthesis of RNA primer. Locate...
POLB: Enables several functions, including DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity;enzyme binding activity; and microtubule binding activity. Involved in base-excisionrepair. Located in cytopla...
POLD1: Enables DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity; chromatin binding activity;and damaged DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process; cellularresponse to UV; and fatty acid homeostasis. Located in aggresome; cytosol;and nuc...
POLD3: Enables protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in DNA-templatedDNA replication; error-prone translesion synthesis; and nucleotide-excisionrepair, DNA gap filli...
POLD4: Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involvedin DNA-templated DNA...
POLE4: Predicted to enable DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involvedin DNA-templated DNA replication....
POLH: Predicted to enable DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involved inDNA synthesis involved in DNA repair and response to UV-C. Located in cytosoland ...
POLL: Enables 5''-deoxyribose-5-phosphate lyase activity and DNA-directedDNA polymerase activity. Involved in DNA metabolic proc...
POLR1C: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and protein dimerizationactivity. Predicted to contribute to RNA polymerase I activity and RNA polymeraseIII activity. Predicted to be involved in transcription by RNA polymeraseI. Located in fibrillar c...
POLR1D: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and protein dimerizationactivity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity.Predicted to be involved in DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to be locatedin cytosol and...
POLR1H: Predicted to enable nucleic acid binding activity and zinc ion bindingactivity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity.Predicted to be involved in termination of RNA pol...
POLR2A: Enables kinase binding activity; promoter-specific chromatin bindingactivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in DNA-templatedtranscription termination; positive regulation of RNA splicing; and tr...
POLR2C: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and protein dimerizationactivity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity.Involved in transcription ...
POLR2D: Predicted to enable translation initiation factor binding activity.Involved in transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located ...
POLR2E: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to contributeto DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity. Involved in transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Located...
POLR2F: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to contributeto DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity. Involved in transcriptionby RNA polymerase ...
POLR2G: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity; single-strandedRNA binding activity; and translation initiation factor binding activity.Involved in transc...
POLR2H: Enables single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleus....
POLR2I: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to contributeto DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity. Involved in transcriptionby ...
POLR2J: Enables LRR domain binding activity. Involved in transcription byRNA polymerase II. Located...
POLR2K: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in transcriptionby RNA polymerase II. Loca...
POLR3C: Enables single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of innate immune response and positive regulation of interfer...
POLR3GL: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in transcriptionby RNA polymerase III. ...
POM121: Predicted to enable nuclear localization sequence binding activity.Predicted to be a structural constituent of nuclear pore. Predicted to beinvolved in RNA expor...
PRIM1: Enables DNA primase activity; metal ion binding activity; and ribonucleotidebinding activity. Involved in DNA replication initiation and DNA replication,sy...
RAD51: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; DNA bindingactivity; and catalytic activity, acting on DNA. Involved in several processes,including DNA metabolic process; cellular response to camptothecin; and regulationof DNA metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within double-strand break repairvia homologous recombination. Located in several cellular components, includingchromosome; nucl...
RAD52: Enables identical protein binding activity and single-stranded DNAbinding activity. Involved in DNA recombination. Acts upstream of or withinDNA double-strand break processing involved in repair via single-strand annealing;cellular response to oxidative stress; and regulation of nucleotide-excisionrepair. Located in nucleus. Part of protein-DNA comp...
RAE1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of mitotic spindleorganization. Located in ...
RALA: Enables several functions, including Edg-2 lysophosphatidic acid receptorbinding activity; enzyme binding activity; and guanyl ribonucleotide bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including actin cytoskeleton reorganization;positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positive regulationof epidermal growth factor receptor si...
RBX1: Enables several functions, including cullin family protein binding activity;ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-like protein ligaseactivity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involvedin SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process;p...
REV3L: Predicted to enable DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involvedin error-prone transles...
RFC2: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA-directed DNA polymera...
RFC3: Enables ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA. Contributes to DNA bindingactivity; DNA clamp loader activity; and single-stranded DNA helicase activity.Involved in DNA replication; positive regulation of DNA-directed DN...
RFC4: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity.Located in nucleo...
RFC5: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA-directed DNA polymera...
RNMT: Enables RNA binding activity and mRNA (guanine-N7-)-methyltransferaseactivity. Involved in 7-methylguanosine mRNA capping. Located in fibrillarcenter and nucleoplasm. Par...
RPA2: Enables DNA binding activity and enzyme binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA metabolic process; regulation of cell cyclephase transition; and regulation of double-strand break repair via homologousrecombination. Located in nuclear bod...
RPA3: Enables damaged DNA binding activity and single-stranded DNA bindingactivity. Involved in DNA meta...
RRM2B: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolicprocess; nucleoside phosphate metabolic process; and positive regulation ofcell cycle process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Implicated in autosomaldominant progressive exte...
SAC3D1: Predicted to be involved in centrosome duplication and spindle assembly.Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of receptor signalingpathway via JAK-STAT and regulation of immune response. Predicted to be locatedin mi...
SDCBP: Enables several functions, including frizzled binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process;positive regulation of cellular component biogenesis; and positive r...
SEC61A1: Enables calcium channel activity and ribosome binding activity. Involvedin cotranslational protein targeting to membrane; post-translational proteintargeting to membrane, translocation; and protein insertion into ER membrane.Acts upstream of or within SRP-dependent cotranslational protein targetingto membrane; endoplasmic reticulum ...
SF3A3: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in U2-type prespliceosome assembly.Located in U2-type spliceosomal complex and nuclear speck. Part o...
SMAD5: Enables DEAD/H-box RNA helicase binding activity; RNA polymerase IIcis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and ubiquitinprotein ligase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptoticprocess. Acts upst...
SNAPC4: Enables DNA binding activity; RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; and RNA polymerase III general transcription initiationfactor activity. Involved in snRNA transcript...
SNAPC5: Enables RNA polymerase II general transcription initiation factoractivity and RNA polymerase III general transcription initiation factor activity.Involved in snRNA transcription by ...
SRSF6: Enables pre-mRNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingmRNA splicing, via spliceosome; negative regulation of keratinocyte differentiation;and negative regulation of mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. Acts upstream ofor within negative regulation of cell death; positive regulation of epithelialcell proliferation involved in lung morphogenesis; and regulation of alternativemRNA splicing, via s...
SSRP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in nucleosome disassembly andregulation of ...
STX3: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity; SNARE binding activity;and arachidonic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingorganelle membrane fusion; positive regulation of chemotaxis; and positiveregulation of protein localization. ...
SUPT4H1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in regulationof DNA-templated transcription and transcription elongat...
SUPT5H: Enables enzyme binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in positive regulation of macroautophagy; regulation of RNA metabolicprocess; and...
SURF1: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Involved in mitochondrialcytochrome c oxidase assembly. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial respirasome.Predicted to be active in mitochondrio...
TAF10: Enables RNA polymerase binding activity; identical protein bindingactivity; and nuclear estrogen receptor binding activity. Contributes to RNApolymerase II general transcription initiation factor activity and histoneacetyltransferase activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcriptioninitiation by RNA polymerase II; protein modification proce...
TAF12: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription factor bindingactivity; and transcription coactivator activity. Contributes to RNA polymeraseII general transcription initiation factor activity. Involved in protein modificationprocess; regulation of DNA-templated transcript...
TAF13: Enables TBP-class protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II; protein phosphorylation;and transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleolus and nucle...
TAF1C: Enables RNA polymerase I core promoter sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity and RNA polymerase I general transcription initiation factor activity.Predicted to be involved in transcripti...
TAF6: Enables DNA binding activity; aryl hydrocarbon receptor binding activity;and molecular adaptor activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II; protein modification...
TAF9: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; C2H2 zincfinger domain binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Contributes to histoneacetyltransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including box C/DsnoRNP assembly; protein ...
TARBP2: Enables RNA binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Contributes to pre-miRNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of defense response tovirus by host; negative regulation of gene ...
TK2: Enables deoxycytidine kinase activity and thymidine kinase activity.Predicted to be involved in pyrimidine nucleoside salvage. Predicted to actupstream of or within deoxyribonucleotide metabolic process and mitochondrialDNA replication. Is active in mitochondrion...
TMED2: Involved in several processes, including Golgi organization; negativeregulation of GTPase activity; and protein localization to plasma membrane.Located in Golgi...
TP53: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and nucleicacid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellularsignal transduction; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of nucleobase-containingcompound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulationof cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including ER overload response; cellular response to glucose starvation; andintrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage by p53 classmediator. Located in several cellular components, including centrosome; nuclearlumen; and transcription repressor complex. Part of transcri...
TSG101: Enables several functions, including protein homodimerization activity;ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity; and virion binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of exosomal secretion;positive regulation of viral budding via host ESCRT complex; and regulationof protein kinase activity. Located in several cellular components, includingendosome; e...
TYMS: Enables mRNA regulatory element binding translation repressor activity;sequence-specific mRNA binding activity; and thymidylate synthase activity.Involved in several processes, including dTMP biosynthetic process; negativeregulation of translation; and tetrahydrofolate interconversion. Located inmitoc...
UMPS: Enables identical protein binding activity; orotate phosphoribosyltransferaseactivity; and orotidine-5''-phosphate decarboxylase activity. Involved inUMP biosynthetic process. Loc...
UPF3B: Enables mRNA binding activity. Involved in nuclear-transcribed mRNAcatabolic process, nonsense-mediated decay and positive regulation of translation.Located in centriolar satellite; cytosol; and nuclear lumen. Part of exon-exonj...
USP11: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity; cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in ...
VPS28: Enables ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof ubiquitin-dependent endocytosis; regulation of protein metabolic process;and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process via th...
VPS37B: Enables calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of viral budding via host ESCRT complex and viral release fromhost ce...
VPS37D: Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to membrane; proteintargeting to vacuole; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process viathe multive...
XPC: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA damage sensor activity; and transcriptioncoactivator activity. Involved in DNA repair; positive regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition. Locatedin several cellular components, including cytosol; mitoch...
ZNF707: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity andRNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity.Predicted to be inv...
ZWINT: Involved in establishment of localization in cell; mitotic sister chromatidsegregation; and mitotic spindle assembly che...
////
AADAT: Enables protein homodimerization activity and transaminase activity.Involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process; glutamate metabolic process;...
ACAA1: Enables acetate CoA-transferase activity and palmitoyl-CoA oxidaseactivity. Involved in bile acid metabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation;and very...
ACAA2: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity and acyl-CoA hydrolaseactivity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia; negative regulation ofmitochondrial membrane permeability involved in apoptotic process; and negative...
ACADL: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity; long-chain-acyl-CoAdehydrogenase activity; and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several processes, including carnitine metabolic process; fattyacid catabolic process; and regulation of lipid metabolic process. Pred...
ACADM: Enables identical protein binding activity and medium-chain-acyl-CoAdehydrogenase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process and fattyacid catabolic process. Located in axon; mito...
ACADS: Enables acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidationusing acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Located in centrosome; mitochondri...
ACADVL: Enables acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; flavin adenine dinucleotidebinding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in epithelialcell differentiation and fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogenase.Located in mitochondrion and nuclear lumen....
ACAT2: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involvedin fatty acid beta-oxidation and positive regulation of intestinal cho...
ACO2: Enables aconitate hydratase activity and iron ion binding activity.Acts upstream of or within citrate metabolic process and tricarboxylic acidcycle. Located in...
ACOT2: Enables acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. Involved in acyl-CoA metabolicprocess; long-chain fatty acid metabolic process; and v...
ACOT8: Enables medium-chain acyl-CoA hydrolase activity and palmitoyl-CoAhydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, including acyl-CoA metabolicprocess; neg...
ACOX1: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; PDZ domainbinding activity; and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasis; fatty acid metabolic process;and hydrogen...
ACSL1: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in lipidbiosynthetic process; long-chain fatty acid import into cell; and long-chainfatty acid me...
ACSL4: Enables arachidonate-CoA ligase activity and very long-chain fattyacid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including long-chainfatty acid metabolic process; negative regulation of prostaglandin secretion;and positive regulation of cell growth. Located in several cellular components,including endoplas...
ACSL5: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in long-chainfatty acid metabolic process and regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway. Located in...
ACSM3: Enables butyrate-CoA ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in acyl-CoAmetabolic process and fatty acid biosynthetic process. Located in mit...
ACSS1: Enables acetate-CoA ligase activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic...
ADH1C: Enables alcohol dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in ethanoloxidation. Located in cytosol; nucleoplasm; and plasma membrane. Implicated...
ADH7: Enables several functions, including alcohol binding activity; aldehydeoxidase activity; and oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group ofdonors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. Involved in several processes, i...
ADIPOR2: Enables adipokinetic hormone receptor activity and adiponectin bindingactivity. Involved in adiponectin-activated signaling pathway. Located inplasma membrane. Implicated in non-alc...
ADSL: Enables (S)-2-(5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamido)succinate lyase (fumarate-forming) activity; N6-(1,2-dicarboxyethyl)AMP AMP-lyase(fumarate-forming) activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involvedin ''de novo'' AMP biosynthetic process. ...
ALAD: Enables identical protein binding activity; porphobilinogen synthaseactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in heme biosynthetic process;negative regulation of proteasomal protein catabolic process; and proteinhomooligomerization....
ALDH1A1: Enables 3-deoxyglucosone dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellulardetoxification of aldehyde and fructosamine cat...
ALDH3A1: Enables alcohol dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity and benzaldehyde dehydrogenase(NAD+) activity. Involved in cellular aldehyde metabolic process. Located...
ALDH3A2: Enables aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity; long-chain-alcoholoxidase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including hexadecanal metabolic process; nervous ...
ALDH9A1: Enables 4-trimethylammoniobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity; aminobutyraldehydedehydrogenase activity; and small molecule binding activity. Involved in cellularaldehyde metabolic proces...
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida; fructose1,6-bisphosphate metabolic pro...
AOC3: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;metal ion binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including amine metabolic process; negative regulationof primary amine oxidase activity; and response to antibiotic. Located inseveral cellular components, including cell surface; microvillus; and plasmamembr...
APEX1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA nucleaseactivity; and phosphodiesterase activity, acting on 3''-phosphoglycolate-terminatedDNA strands. Involved in DNA metabolic process; regulation of RNA metabolicprocess; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellularcomponents, including centrosome; nuclear lumen; and perinuclear region ofcytop...
AQP7: Enables glycerol channel activity and water channel activity. Involvedin glycerol transmembrane transport and water transport. Located in cell-celljunction; cytoplasm; and plasma membran...
AUH: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity and mRNA 3''-UTR binding activity.Predicted to be involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Predicted to be locatedin mitochondrial matrix. Predicted to be a...
BCKDHB: Contributes to 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (2-methylpropanoyl-transferring)activity. Involved in branched-chain amino acid catabolic process. Locatedin mitochondrial alpha-...
BLVRA: Enables biliberdin reductase NAD+ activity. Involved in heme catabolicprocess. Locate...
BMPR1B: Enables ATP binding activity; SMAD binding activity; and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in several processes, including osteoblast differentiation;positive regulation of bone mineralization; and positive regulation of osteoblastdifferentiation. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be partof receptor complex. Predic...
BPHL: Enables alpha-amino-acid esterase activity and poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolaseactivity. Involved in ATP generation from p...
CA2: Enables arylesterase activity; carbonate dehydratase activity; and zincion binding activity. Involved in angiotensin-activated signaling pathwayand regulation of monoatomic anion transport. Located in apical part of cell;cytoplasm; and pl...
CA4: Predicted to enable carbonate dehydratase activity. Involved in bicarbonatetransport. Located in several cellular components, including brush bordermembrane; ...
CA6: Predicted to enable carbonate dehydratase activity. Involved in detectionof chemical stimulus involved in sens...
CBR1: Enables carbonyl reductase (NADPH) activity and oxidoreductase activity,acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor. Involved in severalprocesses, including glucocorticoid metabolic process; positive ...
CBR3: Enables NADPH binding activity; NADPH dehydrogenase (quinone) activity;and carbonyl reductase (NADPH) activi...
CD1D: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity; exogenous lipid antigenbinding activity; and histone binding activity. Involved in antigen processingand presentation, endogenous lipid antigen via MHC class Ib and positive regulationof T cell proliferation. Located in cell surface...
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoproteinparticle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-betaclearance by cellular catabolic process; lipid transport; and second-messenger-mediatedsignaling. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus;cell surface; and membrane raft. Part of receptor complex. Implicated in severaldiseases, including blood platelet d...
CEL: Predicted to enable carboxylic ester hydrolase activity; neurexin familyprotein binding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Involved in cholesterolcatabolic process; intestinal cholesterol absorption; and pancreatic juicesecretion. Located in Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum....
CIDEA: Predicted to enable protein homodimerization activity. Involved innegative regulation of lipid catabolic process and negative regulation oftumor...
CPOX: Enables coproporphyrinogen oxidase activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Predicted to be involved in protoporphyrinogen IX biosynthetic process.Predicted to act upstream of or within heme bio...
CPT1A: Enables carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitinemetabolic process; epithelial cell differentiation; and long-chain fatty acidmetabolic process. Located in mitochondrial outer membrane. Impli...
CPT2: Enables carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitinemetabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation; and long-chain fatty acid metabolicprocess. Located in mitochondrion...
CRAT: Enables acyl-CoA oxidase activity and carnitine O-acetyltransferaseactivity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process, CoA-linked and fatty acidmetabolic process. Locate...
CRYZ: Enables several functions, including NADPH binding activity; NADPH:quinonereductase activity; and mRNA 3''-UTR binding activity. Involved in p...
CYP1A1: Enables long-chain fatty acid omega-1 hydroxylase activity and monooxygenaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including estrogen metabolic process;lipid hydroxylation; and retinol metabolic process. Acts upstream of or withincellular response to organic cyclic compound. Predicted to be located in mitochondrialinner membrane. Predicted to be active in intracellular membrane-bounded organelle.Implicated in several diseases, including autoimmune disease...
CYP4A11: Enables monooxygenase activity. Involved in several processes, includingicosanoid metabolic process; pressure natriuresis; and renal water homeostasis.Located in apical pla...
CYP4A22: Enables 16-hydroxypalmitate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in lipidhydr...
D2HGDH: Enables (R)-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity and zinc ionbinding activity. Involved in malate metabolic process. L...
DECR1: Enables 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity; NADPH binding activity;and identical protein binding activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxida...
DHCR24: Enables enzyme binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and peptide antigen bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol biosyntheticprocess via desmosterol; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity involved in apoptotic pr...
DLD: Enables dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to pyruvatedehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic processfrom pyruvate; branched-chain amino acid catabolic process; and histone succinylation.Located in mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex; mitoc...
DLST: Enables dihydrolipoyllysine-residue succinyltransferase activity. Involvedin histone succinylation and tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in severalcellular components, including centriolar satellite; mitochond...
ECH1: Predicted to enable delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase activity.Predicted to be involved in fatty acid...
ECHS1: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Involved in fatty acid beta...
ECI1: Predicted to enable delta(3)-delta(2)-enoyl-CoA isomerase activity andenoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Predicted to b...
ECI2: Enables delta(3)-delta(2)-enoyl-CoA isomerase activity. Involved infatty acid catabolic proc...
EHHADH: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity; enzyme binding activity; andlong-chain-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in fatty acidbe...
ELOVL5: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid biosyntheticprocess and positive regulation of fatty acid biosynthetic process. Locatedin dendritic tree...
ENO2: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycolytic process. Located in cytosol and plasma membrane.Implicated in prostate cancer. Biomarker of several diseases, i...
ENO3: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Involved insubstantia nigra de...
EPHX1: Enables cis-stilbene-oxide hydrolase activity and epoxide hydrolaseactivity. Involved in arachidonic acid metabolic process and epoxide metabolicprocess. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Implicatedin several diseases, including Leber hereditary optic neuropathy; anemia (mul...
ERP29: Predicted to enable protein homodimerization activity and protein-foldingchaperone binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of gene expression;negative regulation of protein secretion; and positive regulation of macromoleculemeta...
ETFDH: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity; electron-transferring-flavoproteindehydrogenase activity; and ubiquinone binding activity. Involved in electrontransport chain and fatty acid beta-oxidation using ...
FABP1: Enables antioxidant activity. Involved in cellular response to hydrogenperoxide; cellular response to hypoxia; and negative regulation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in a...
FABP2: Enables long-chain fatty acid binding activity. Involved in intestinallipid absorption. Predicted to be located in apical cortex; microvillus; andplasma membrane. Predicted to be active in cytosol and nucleus. I...
FASN: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activity. Involvedin osteoblast differentiation. Located in Golgi app...
FH: Enables fumarate hydratase activity and histone binding activity. Involvedin DNA damage response; dicarboxylic acid metabolic process; and positiveregulation of double-strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining. Locatedin several cellular comp...
FMO1: Enables N,N-dimethylaniline monooxygenase activity and hypotaurine dehydrogenaseactivity. Involved in NADPH oxidation; taurine biosynthetic process;...
G0S2: Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway and positive regulationof extrinsic apo...
GABARAPL1: Enables Tat protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Predicted to be involved in autophagosome assembly; autophagyof mitochondrion; and ce...
GAD2: Predicted to enable glutamate decarboxylase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in gamma-aminobutyric acid biosynthetic process and glutamate decarboxylationto succinate. Predicted to be located in clathrin-sculpted gamma-aminobutyricacid transport vesicle membrane and plasma memb...
GAPDHS: Predicted to enable glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (NAD+)(phosphorylating) activity. Predicted to be involved in flagellated spermmoti...
GCDH: Enables glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in fatty acidbeta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogenas...
GLUL: Enables glutamate-ammonia ligase activity; identical protein bindingactivity; and protein-cysteine S-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including protein palmitoylation; regulation of proteinlocalization to nucleolus; and regulation of sprouting angiogenesis. Locatedin cytosol...
GPD1: Predicted to enable glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity.Predicted to be involved in NADH oxidation and glycerol-3-phosphate metabolicprocess. Predicted to act upstream of or within several proces...
GPD2: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (quinone) activity. Predictedto be involved in glycerophosphate shuttle. Predicted to act upstream of orwithin camera-type eye development; gluconeogenesi...
GRHPR: Enables NADPH binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in glyoxylate metabolic process. Loc...
GSTZ1: Enables glutathione transferase activity; maleylacetoacetate isomeraseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in glutathione metabolicprocess. Predi...
H2AZ1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; RNA polymerase II core promoter sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity; and nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Involved in cellular re...
HADH: Enables 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; NAD+ binding activity;and identical protein binding activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation.Located...
HADHB: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrion. Implicated in mitochondrialmetabolism d...
HAO2: Enables (S)-2-hydroxy-acid oxidase activity. Involved in fatty acido...
HCCS: Enables heme binding activity and holocytochrome-c synthase activity.Involved in cytochrome c-heme linkage. Located in membrane and mitochondrion.Impl...
HIBCH: Enables 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in val...
HMGCL: Enables hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA lyase activity; metal ion bindingactivity; and structural molecule activity. Involved in ketone body biosyntheticprocess. Located in mitochond...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic process and farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process,meval...
HMGCS2: Enables hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase activity and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA metabolic process and ketonebody biosynthetic process. Located ...
HPGD: Enables several functions, including 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase(NAD+) activity; NAD+ binding activity; and prostaglandin E receptor activity.Involved in several processes, including parturition; prostaglandin metabolicprocess; and regulation of prostaglandin catabolic process. Located in cytosoland nucleoplasm. Implicate...
HSD17B10: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors,NAD or NADP as acceptor and tRNA binding activity. Involved in several processes,including carboxylic acid metabolic process; mitochondrial tRNA processing;and protein homotetramerization. Located in mitochondrial nucleoid and tRNAmethyltransferase complex. Part of mitochondrial ri...
HSD17B11: Enables steroid dehydrogenase activity. Involved in androgen catabolicproce...
HSD17B4: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity; oxidoreductase activity, actingon the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including androgen metabolic process;estrogen metabolic process; and f...
HSD17B7: Enables 3-keto sterol reductase activity; 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-dioldehydrogenase activity; and estradiol 17-beta-dehydrogenase [NAD(P)] activity.Involved in androgen metabolic process; ...
HSDL2: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity. Located i...
HSP90AA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess; protein-containing complex assembly; and regulation of defense response....
HSPH1: Enables adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predicted to beinvolved in protein folding. Predicted to act upstream of or within severalprocesses, including chaperone cofactor-dependent protein refolding; negativeregulation of intracellular signal tr...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutaratemetabolic process and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol andperoxisome. Implicated in autoimmune disease; hematologi...
IDH3B: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity and isocitrate dehydrogenase(NAD+) activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in mitochon...
IDH3G: Enables magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acidcycle. Located in mitochondri...
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and manganese ion binding activit...
IL4I1: Enables L-amino-acid oxidase activity. Involved in aromatic amino acidfamily catabolic process; negative regulation of T cell mediated immune responseto tumor cell; and regulation of T cell activatio...
INMT: Enables amine N-methyltransferase activity. Involved in amine metabolicpr...
KMT5A: Enables histone H4K20 methyltransferase activity; p53 binding activity;and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative regulation oftranscription by RNA polymerase II; peptidyl-lysine monomethylatio...
LDHA: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in lactate metabolic process...
LGALS1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of apoptotic process; positive regulation of inflammatoryresponse; and positive regulation of viral ...
LTC4S: Enables identical protein binding activity; leukotriene-C4 synthaseactivity; and lipid binding activity. Involved in long-chain fatty acid biosyntheticprocess. Acts upstream of or wi...
MAOA: Enables monoamine oxidase activity and primary amine oxidase activity.Predicted to be involved in biogenic amine metabolic process. Predicted toact upstream of or within dopamine catabolic process and positive regulationof signal transduction. Located in c...
MCEE: Enables methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase activity. Involved in L-methylmalonyl-CoAmetabolic proc...
MDH1: Predicted to enable L-malate dehydrogenase activity and NAD bindingactivity. Involved in NADH metabolic process and NADP metabolic process. Locatedin...
MDH2: Enables L-malate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in aerobic respirationand malate metabolic process. Located in mitoch...
ME1: Enables several functions, including malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating)(NADP+) activity; metal ion binding activity; and oxaloacetate decarboxylaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including malat...
METAP1: Predicted to enable metalloaminopeptidase activity. Involved in plateletaggregation. Predicted to be...
MGLL: Enables acylglycerol lipase activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in acy...
MIF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;intramolecular oxidoreductase activity; and receptor ligand activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation;positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and regulation of intracellularsignal transduction. Located in several cellular components, including cellsurface; ...
MIX23: Predicted to be located in mitochondrial intermembrane space. Pre...
MLYCD: Enables identical protein binding activity and malonyl-CoA decarboxylaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including acyl-CoA metabolic process;positive regulation of fatty acid oxidation; an...
NBN: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA metabolic process; positive regulation ofphosphorylation; and regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream ofor within DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in chromosome and nucleus.Part of Mre11 complex. Implicated in several disea...
NCAPH2: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin meiotic chromosome condensation; mitotic chromosome condensation; and mitoticsister chromatid separation. Predicted to act upst...
NSDHL: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH groupof donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. Predicted to be involved in cholesterolmetabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within hair follicle development;labyrinthine layer blood vess...
NTHL1: Enables DNA binding activity and catalytic activity, acting on DNA.Involved in base-excision repair, AP site formation and nucleotide-excis...
ODC1: Enables ornithine decarboxylase activity. Involved in response to virus.Predicted to be loc...
OSTC: Predicted to contribute to dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-proteinglycotransferase activity. Involved in protein ...
PCBD1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin L-phenylalanine metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or withinpositive regulation of DNA-templated transcription and regulatio...
PDHA1: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Involvedin acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate. Located in mitochondrialpyruvat...
PDHB: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Contributesto pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosyntheticprocess from pyruvate. Located in mi...
PPARA: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; nuclear steroid receptor activity; andubiquitin conjugating enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of lipid storage; regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription; and regulation of lipid metabolic process. Acts upstream ofor within negative regulation of protein kinase B signaling; negative regulationof transforming growth factor beta receptor sign...
PRDX6: Enables several functions, including 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferaseactivity; calcium-independent phospholipase A2 activity; and glutathione peroxidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular oxidant detoxification;glycero...
PSME1: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activator activity. Predicted tobe involved in positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; regulation ofG1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; and regulation of proteasomal proteincatabolic proces...
PTPRG: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein tyrosine phosphataseactivity. Involved in negative regulati...
PTS: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin amino acid metabolic process and central nervous system development. Predictedto act upstream of or within tetrahydrobiopterin bios...
RAP1GDS1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved inseveral processes, including CAAX-box protein maturation; intracellular calciumion homeostasis; and protein localization to n...
RDH11: Enables NADP-retinol dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellular detoxificationof aldehyde and retinoid metabolic process. Acts upstream of...
RDH16: Enables NAD-retinol dehydrogenase activity; androstan-3-alpha,17-beta-dioldehydrogenase activity; and androsterone dehydrogenase activity. Involve...
REEP6: Involved in detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception.Located in endoplasmic reticulum and phot...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predictedto be involved...
S100A10: Enables protein homodimerization activity and transmembrane transporterbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationof cell-substrate adhesion; positive regulation of plasminogen activation;and positive re...
SDHA: Enables succinate dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Contributes tosuccinate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in nervous system development;respiratory electron transport chain; and succinate metabolic process. Locatedin mitochondrion and nucleolus. Implicated in Leigh d...
SDHC: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin mitochondrial electron transport, succinate to ubiquinone. Predicted tobe located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Predicted to be part of mitochondrialrespiratory chain complex II, succinate dehyd...
SDHD: Predicted to enable heme binding activity and ubiquinone binding activity.Involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane.Implicated in Car...
SERINC1: Predicted to enable enzyme binding activity and protein-macromoleculeadaptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingphosphatidylserine metabolic process; positive regulation of CDP-diacylglycerol-serineO-phosphatidyltransferase activity; and positive regula...
SLC22A5: Enables (R)-carnitine transmembrane transporter activity and PDZdomain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including organiccation transport; positive regulation of intestinal epithelial structure maintenance;and response to type II interferon. Located in apical plasma membrane; brushborder membrane; and endo...
SMS: Predicted to enable spermine synthase activity. Predicted to be involvedin spermine biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within sperminemetabolic process. Loc...
SUCLA2: Predicted to enable succinate-CoA ligase (ADP-forming) activity andsuccinate-CoA ligase (GDP-forming) activity. Predicted to be involved in succinyl-CoAmetabolic process and tri...
SUCLG1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in tricarboxylicacid cycle. Located in succinate-CoA ligase comple...
SUCLG2: Predicted to enable succinate-CoA ligase (GDP-forming) activity. Predictedto be involved in succinyl-CoA metabolic process and tricarboxylic aci...
TDO2: Enables heme binding activity; identical protein binding activity; andtryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase activity. Involved in protein homotetramerizationand tryptophan catabolic process to kynurenine. Pr...
TP53INP2: Predicted to enable ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in autophagosomeassembly and positive regulation of DNA-templ...
UBE2L6: Enables ubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in ISG15-proteinconjugation; protein polyubiquitination; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolicprocess. Predicted to act upstream of or within modification-dependent proteincatabolic pr...
UGDH: Enables UDP-glucose 6-dehydrogenase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in UDP-glucuronate biosynthetic process; neuron development;and protein hex...
UROD: Enables uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity. Involved in porphyrin-containingcompound catabolic process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Implica...
UROS: Enables uroporphyrinogen-III synthase activity. Involved in heme biosyntheticprocess and uroporphyrinogen III biosynthetic process. ...
VNN1: Enables pantetheine hydrolase activity. Involved in pantothenate metabolicprocess. Predicted to be located in azurophil granule membrane; extrac...
XIST: Predicted to enable ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Predictedto be involved in establishment of chromosome localization and inactivationof X chromosome by heterochromatin formation. Predicted to act upstream ofor within inactivati...
YWHAH: Enables several functions, including nuclear glucocorticoid receptorbinding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and transmembrane transporterbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including glucocorticoidcatabolic proces...
////
ADD1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and protein dimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including barbed-end actin filamentcapping; positive regulation of a...
AIFM3: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. Involvedi...
ANKH: Enables inorganic diphosphate transmembrane transporter activity andinorganic phosphate transmembrane transporter activity. ...
ANXA1: Enables calcium-dependent phospholipid binding activity; calcium-dependentprotein binding activity; and phospholipase A2 inhibitor activity. Involvedin several processes, including leukocyte chemotaxis; regulation of T cellactivation; and regulation of vesicle-mediated transport. Locate...
APP: Enables several functions, including PTB domain binding activity; proteindimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; modulationof chemical synaptic transmission; and positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of gene expression.Locat...
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription by RNA...
AVPR1A: Enables vasopressin receptor activity. Involved in positive regulationof cell population pr...
BAX: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; channelactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including apoptotic signaling pathway; mitochondrion organization; and positiveregulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, includinge...
BCAP31: Predicted to enable MHC class I protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling using intracellularcalcium source; intracellular calcium ion homeostasis; a...
BCL10: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to kinaseactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationof immune response; positive regulation...
BCL2L1: Enables BH3 domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic process; negative regulation of protein localizationto plasma membrane; and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Acts upstreamof or within negative regulation of extr...
BCL2L10: Enables calcium ion binding activity and caspase binding activity.Involved in apoptotic process and negative regulation of apoptotic process.Located in several cellular components...
BCL2L11: Contributes to microtubule binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic process; positive regulation of apoptotic p...
BCL2L2: Enables disordered domain specific binding activity and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process.Lo...
BGN: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringcompression resistance. Predicted to act upstream of or within articular cartilagedevelopment; bone developm...
BID: Predicted to enable death receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including hepatocyte apoptotic process; positiv...
BIK: Involved in positive regulation of protein-containing complex assembly;positive regulation of release of cytochrome c from mitochondria; ...
BIRC3: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in positiveregulation of protein ubiquitination; regulation of apoptotic process; andregulation of necroptotic process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm...
BMF: Involved in cellular response to UV; negative regulation of autophagy;and positive regulation of apopt...
BMP2: Enables several functions, including BMP receptor binding activity;co-receptor binding activity; and phosphatase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of cellular biosynthetic process;regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threoninekinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wit...
BNIP3L: Enables lamin binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in defense response to virus; mitochondrial protein catabolic process;and regulatio...
BRCA1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; nucleicacid binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA repair; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and protein ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to DNA damage. Located in several cellular comp...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved innegative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulationof translation; and neuron project...
BTG3: Acts upstream of or within negative r...
CASP1: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; positive regulation of signal tr...
CASP2: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; identical protein bindingactivity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA damag...
CASP3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto staurosporine; erythrocyte differentiation; and positive regulation ofnitrogen compound metabolic proce...
CASP4: Enables CARD domain binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to amyloid-beta;...
CASP6: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to staurosporine; pos...
CASP7: Enables RNA binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in execution phase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to staurosporine; po...
CASP8: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in apoptotic signaling pathway; death effector domain binding activity;and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to mechanical stimulus; proteolysis; and regulation of ...
CASP9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV; intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulationof cy...
CAV1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; inwardrectifier potassium channel inhibitor activity; and transmembrane transporterbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including endocytosis; regulationof protein metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Actsupstream of or within response to estrogen and response to proges...
CCNA1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle ...
CCND1: Enables enzyme binding activity; proline-rich region binding activity;and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity;regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and response to UV-A. Locatedin cyclin D1-...
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components,including chromatin; cyclin D2-CDK4 complex; a...
CD14: Enables lipopeptide binding activity; lipopolysaccharide binding activity;and lipoteichoic acid binding activity. Involved in cellular response to bacteriallipopeptide; positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling; and positiveregulation of interleukin-8 production. Acts upstream of or within cellularresponse to lipopolysaccharide; cellular response to lipotei...
CD2: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including natural killer cell activation;...
CD38: Predicted to enable NAD+ nucleosidase activity and phosphorus-oxygenlyase activity. Involved in several processes, including B cell receptor ...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Loc...
CD69: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be i...
CDC25B: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cytokinesis; positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle;...
CDK2: Enables cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependent protein serine/threoninekinase activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Contributesto histone kinase activity. Involved in several pr...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CDKN1B: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependentprotein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of nitrogen compoundmetabolic process; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth musclecell proliferation; and regulation of cell cycle G1...
CFLAR: Enables enzyme activator activity and protease binding activity. Involvedin apoptotic process; positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling;and regulation of programmed cell death. Acts upstream ...
CLU: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and misfolded protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcellular component organization; regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in several cel...
CREBBP: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; p53 binding activity; and transcription coactivator bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including histone glu...
CTH: Enables carbon-sulfur lyase activity; identical protein binding activity;and pyridoxal phosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
CTNNB1: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; alpha-cateninbinding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes,including canonical Wnt signaling pathway; epithelial tube morphogenesis;and regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process. Acts upstream of orwithin positive regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Locatedin several cellular components, includin...
CYLD: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; proline-richregion binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of NF-kappaB transcription ...
DAP: Enables death domain binding activity. Involved in several processes,including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase ...
DAP3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in apoptoticsignaling pat...
DCN: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of autophagy.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulationof mitochondrial depolarization; positive regulation of mit...
DDIT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding acti...
DFFA: Enables several functions, including deoxyribonuclease inhibitor activity;protein domain specific binding activity; and protein folding chaperone. Involvedin chaperone-mediated protein folding; negative ...
DIABLO: Predicted to be involved in activation of cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity involved in apoptotic process by cytochrome c; intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to oxidative stres...
DNAJA1: Enables several functions, including C3HC4-type RING finger domainbinding activity; Hsp70 protein binding activity; and signaling receptor bindingactivity. Involved in se...
DNAJC3: Predicted to enable several functions, including misfolded proteinbinding activity; protein kinase inhibitor activity; and protein-folding chapero...
DNM1L: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; enzyme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including mitochondrion organization; protein-containingcomplex assembly; and regulation of mitochondrion organization. Acts upstreamof with a positive effect on ...
DPYD: Enables dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in nucleobase catabolic process and thym...
EBP: Enables identical protein binding activity and steroid delta-isomeraseactivity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process and os...
EGR3: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to vascular ...
EMP1: Involved in bleb assembly an...
ENO2: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycolytic process. Located in cytosol and plasm...
ERBB2: Enables several functions, including ErbB-3 class receptor bindingactivity; enzyme binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity.Contributes to growth factor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; proteinphosphorylation; and regulation of MAPK cascade. Acts upstr...
ERBB3: Enables several functions, including ErbB-3 class receptor bindingactivity; neuregulin binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathwayin absence of ligand; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signali...
EREG: Enables receptor ligand activity and transmembrane receptor proteintyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, includingERBB signaling pathw...
ETF1: Enables sequence-specific mRNA binding activity and translation releasefactor activity. Involved in regulat...
F2: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; lipopolysaccharidebinding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; defense response to other organism;and regulation of blood coagulation. Located in extracellular space and serine-ty...
F2R: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and thrombin-activated receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including connective tissue replacementinvolved in inflammatory resp...
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellsurface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolicprocess; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withinapoptotic process. Located in several cellu...
FASLG: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including necroptotic signaling pathway; positive regulationof endothelial cell apoptotic process; and positive regulation of phosphatidylserineexposure on apoptotic cell surface. Acts upstream of or within extrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway via death domain receptors; positi...
FDXR: Predicted to enable NADPH-adrenodoxin reductase activity. ...
FEZ1: Predicted to enable gamma-tubulin binding activity and protein kinaseC binding act...
GADD45A: Enables kinase binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes...
GADD45B: Involved in positive regulation of JNK cascade; positive regulation...
GCH1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTP cyclohydrolaseI activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including dopamine biosynthetic process; positive regulation of nitr...
GNA15: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration...
GPX1: Enables SH3 domain binding activity; glutathione peroxidase activity;and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including UV protection; icosanoid metabolic process; andnegative regulation of apoptotic process. Located in cytosol and mitochondrion.Colocalizes with Le...
GPX3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity;and selenium binding activity. Predicted to be involved in hydrogen peroxidecatabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular oxida...
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity;and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved inarachidonic acid metabolic process;...
GSN: Enables calcium ion binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity;and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin filament organizatio...
GSR: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity andglutathione-disulfide reductase (NADPH) activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell redox homeostasis; cellular response to ox...
GSTM1: Enables several functions, including glutathione binding activity;glutathione transferase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular detoxification of nitrogen compound;fatty acid metabolic process; and glutathione d...
GUCY2D: Enables guanylate cyclase activity. Predicted to be involved in cGMPbiosynthetic process and receptor guanylyl cyclase signaling pathway. Locatedin...
H1-0: Enables chromatin DNA binding activity. Involved in heterochromatinformation and positive regulation of transcription re...
HGF: Enables chemoattractant activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to hepatocyte growthfactor stimulus; negative regulation of programmed cell death; and positiveregulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of or withinregulation of branching...
HMGB2: Enables DNA binding activity; signaling receptor binding activity;and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of myeloid cell ...
HMOX1: Enables several functions, including heme binding activity; heme oxygenase(decyclizing) activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved inseveral processes, including porphyrin-containing compound catabolic process;positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involvedin sprouting angiogenesi...
HSPB1: Enables several functions, including protein folding chaperone; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including anterograde axonal protein transport; positive...
IER3: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis; apoptoticprocess; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to act upstreamof or within...
IFITM3: Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of viral entry into host cell;...
IFNB1: Enables chloramphenicol O-acetyltransferase activity; cytokine activity;and cytokine receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to cytokine stimulus; negativ...
IFNGR1: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including glial cell activation; negative regulationof amyloid-beta clearance; and positive regulation of macrom...
IGF2R: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphoprotein bindingactivity; and retromer complex binding activity. Involved in positive regulationby host of viral process. Located in cell surface...
IGFBP6: Enables identical protein binding activity and insulin-like growthfactor II binding activity. Involved in cell migration and positive regulationo...
IL18: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-18 receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; andpositive regulation of macrom...
IL1A: Enables copper ion binding activity and cytokine activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of interleukin-2 production;positive regulation of mitotic nuclear division; and response to copper ion.Located in cyt...
IL1B: Enables cytokine activity; integrin binding activity; and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of monooxygenaseactivity; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withincellular response to organic substance; cellular respons...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto lipopolysaccharide; positive regulatio...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, i...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin RNA catabolic p...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMADbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationby host of viral transcript...
KRT18: Enables scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in Golgi to plasmamembrane protein transport; intermediate filament cytoskeleton organization;and negative regula...
LEF1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and proteindomain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, includinghisto...
LGALS3: Enables several functions, including IgE binding activity; chemoattractantactivity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including leukocyte chemotaxis; positive regulation of calciumion import;...
LMNA: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA double-strand break attachment to nuclear envelope; cellularresponse to hypoxia; and regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstreamof or within with a positive effect on cellul...
LUM: Enables collagen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in visualperception. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation oftranscription by RNA polymerase II. L...
MADD: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in executionphase o...
MCL1: Enables BH3 domain binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand; negativeregulation of autophagy; and regulation of apoptotic process. A...
MGMT: Predicted to enable methylated-DNA-[protein]-cysteine S-methyltransferaseactivity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process and positiveregulation of double-strand break repair...
MMP2: Enables metallopeptidase activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; endodermalcell differentiation; and positive regulation of vascular associated smoothmuscle cell proliferation. Located ...
NEDD9: Enables protein tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cilium disassembly; positive regulation of protein ...
NEFH: Enables protein kinase binding activity. A structural constituent ofcytoskeleton. Involved in axon development; neurofilament bundle assembly;and regulation of organelle transport along microtubule. Located in cytoplasm;cytos...
PAK1: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;identical protein binding activity; and molecular function inhibitor activity.Contributes to small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including hepatocyte growth factor receptor signaling pathway; positive regul...
PDCD4: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cell differentiation...
PDGFRB: Enables several functions, including growth factor binding activity;platelet-derived growth factor beta-receptor activity; and platelet-derivedgrowth factor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingplatelet-derived growth factor receptor signaling pathway...
PEA15: Involved in negative regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway...
PLAT: Enables phosphoprotein binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofproteolysis and plasminogen activation. Located in cell surface; cytoplasm;and serine protease inhibitor complex....
PLCB2: Enables phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. Involved inphosphatidylinositol metabolic process....
PLPPR4: Predicted to enable lipid phosphatase activity; lysophosphatidic acidphosphatase activity; and phosphatidate phosphatase activity. Predicted tobe involved in sever...
PMAIP1: Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; positive regulationof release ...
PPP2R5B: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase activator activity. Predictedto be involved in protein dephosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including positive ...
PPP3R1: Enables cyclosporin A binding activity; phosphatase binding activity;and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in c...
PPT1: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity; sulfatide binding activity;and thiolester hydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, includinglysosomal lumen acidification; positive...
PRF1: Enables identical protein binding activity and wide pore channel activity.Involved in immunological synapse formation; positive regulation of killingof cells of another organism; and protein homooligomerization. Located incytolytic granule; cytosol; and memb...
PSEN1: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; PDZ domainbinding activity; and aspartic endopeptidase activity, intramembrane cleaving.Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; proteolysis;and regulation of gene expression. Acts upst...
PSEN2: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid-beta formation; mitochondrion-endoplasmic reticulum membranetethering; and pro...
PTK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway;protein phosphorylation; ...
RARA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; nuclear receptoractivity; and protein kinase B binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to estrogen s...
RELA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-bindingtranscription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and enzyme bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to moleculeof bacterial origin; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulationof signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-binding activityoligom...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase ac...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
RHOT2: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involvedin cellular homeostasis...
RNASEL: Enables RNA binding activity; RNA nuclease activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in defense response to virus; negativereg...
ROCK1: Enables Rho-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity andaspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in se...
SAT1: Enables diamine N-acetyltransferase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in angioge...
SATB1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II trans...
SC5D: Enables C-5 sterol desaturase activity. Predicted to be involved incholesterol biosynthetic...
SLC20A1: Predicted to enable inorganic phosphate transmembrane transporteractivity. Involved in posi...
SMAD7: Enables several functions, including I-SMAD binding activity; activinbinding activity; and beta-catenin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including regulation of DNA-templated transcription; regulation of proteinmetabolic process; and regulation of trans...
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxidedismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negativeregulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation ofsuperoxide anion generation. Located in several cellula...
SOD2: Enables identical protein binding activity; manganese ion binding activity;and superoxide dismutase activity. Involved in several processes, includingintracellular oxygen homeostasis; negative regulation of vascular associatedsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulatio...
SPTAN1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actincytoskeleton organization. L...
SQSTM1: Enables several functions, including K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependentprotein binding activity; SH2 domain binding activity; and enzyme bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including protein loc...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporteractivity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigenvia MHC class I; cytosol to...
TGFB2: Enables amyloid-beta binding activity; protein homodimerization activity;and transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; heartdevel...
TGFBR3: Enables several functions, including transforming growth factor betabinding activity; transforming growth factor beta receptor activity, typeIII; and type II transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity.Inv...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV-A; negative re...
TIMP2: Enables several functions, including molecular function inhibitor activity;protease binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of metallopeptidase act...
TIMP3: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and proteasebinding activity. Involved in negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade;negative regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis; and positiveregulation of TRAIL-activated apoptotic...
TNF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protease binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess; positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or withinseveral processes, includin...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regu...
TNFSF10: Enables identical protein binding activity and zinc ion binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic proc...
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation;and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA re...
TSPO: Predicted to enable cholesterol binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, includ...
TXNIP: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in cellularrespo...
VDAC2: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity;phosphatidylcholine binding activity; and voltage-gated monoatomic anion channe...
WEE1: Predicted to enable protein tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle and negative regulationof G1/S tra...
XIAP: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidas...
////
ABCB1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATPase-coupledintramembrane lipid transporter activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including lipid translocation; regulationof monoatomic anion transport; and xenobiotic detoxification by transmembraneexport across the plasma membran...
ADAM19: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursorprotein catabolic process. Involved in several pro...
AGER: Enables several functions, including S100 protein binding activity;amyloid-beta binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including glial cell activation; modulation of chemicalsynaptic transmission; and positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction.L...
AHCY: Enables adenosylhomocysteinase activity. Predicted to be involved inS-adenosylmethionine cycle. Predicted to act u...
AHNAK: Enables S100 protein binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in regulation of voltage-gated...
AHR: Enables several functions, including Hsp90 protein binding activity;general transcription initiation factor binding activity; and protein heterodimerizationactivity. Contributes to nuclear receptor activity. Involved in several proces...
ALCAM: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in heterophiliccell-cell adhesi...
AMACR: Enables alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in bile acid metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion;peroxis...
ANXA4: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; calcium-dependentphospholipid binding activity; and calcium-dependent protein binding activity.Involved in epithelial cell di...
APLP1: Enables adrenergic receptor binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in cellular response to norepinephrine stimulusand n...
ARL4A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellularprotein transport and vesicle...
BATF: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, in...
BATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-re...
BCL2: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including B cell receptor signaling pathway; negative regulationof apoptotic process; and positive regulation of B cell proliferation. Actsupstream of or within several processes, including B cell proliferation; apoptoticsignaling pathway; and negative...
BCL2L1: Enables BH3 domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic process; negative regulation of protein localizationto plasma membrane; and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. Acts upstreamof or within negative regulation of extr...
BHLHE40: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and proteindimeriz...
BMP2: Enables several functions, including BMP receptor binding activity;co-receptor binding activity; and phosphatase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of cellular biosynthetic process;regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threoninekinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wit...
BMPR2: Enables BMP binding activity; cadherin binding activity; and proteintyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase s...
CA2: Enables arylesterase activity; carbonate dehydratase activity; and zincion binding activity. Involved in angiotensin-activated signaling pathwayand regu...
CAPG: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including actin filament severing; actin polymerizationor depolyme...
CAPN3: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;ligase regulator activity; and titin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including calcium-dependent s...
CASP3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto staurosporine; erythrocyte differentiation; and positive regulation ofnitrogen compound metabolic proce...
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components,including chromatin; cyclin D2-CDK4 complex; a...
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclinD3...
CCNE1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Involved in G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle andpositive regulation of mesenchymal stem cel...
CCR4: Predicted to enable C-C chemokine binding activity and C-C chemokinereceptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingcalcium-mediated signaling; cell chemotaxis; and positive regulation of cy...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Loc...
CD48: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and signaling receptoractivity. Predicte...
CD79B: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin B cell differentiation and B cell receptor signaling pathway. Predictedto act upstream of or within respons...
CD81: Enables cholesterol binding activity; signaling receptor binding activity;and virus receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of immune response; positive regulation of ly...
CD83: Predicted to be involved in defense response; humoral immune response;and signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or withi...
CD86: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of T cell activation. Predictedto act upstream of or within defense response to virus and toll-like receptorsignal...
CDC42SE2: Enables signaling adaptor activity. Involved ...
CDC6: Enables kinase binding activity. Involved in mitotic cell cycle andregulation of cell cycle proc...
CDCP1: Predicted to be located in ...
CDKN1C: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity and protein kinase inhibitoractivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofcyclin-dependent protein kinase activity; po...
CISH: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activity.Predicted to be involved in phosphatidylinositol phosphate biosynthetic process.Predicted to...
CKAP4: Enables RNA binding activity. Located in several cellular components,incl...
COCH: Enables collagen binding activity. Involved in regulation of cell shape.Located in collagen-co...
COL6A1: Enables collagen binding activity and platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation. Loca...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and positive regulation of macrophage migr...
CSF2: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to cytokine stimulus; myeloid leukocyte differentiation;and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in extracellularspace; granu...
CST7: Enables peptidase inhibitor activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in negativ...
CTLA4: Involved in several processes, including B cell receptor signalingpathway; negative regulation of lymphocyte activation; and positive regulationof apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including clathrin-coatedendocytic vesicle; external side of plasma membrane; and perinuc...
CTSZ: Enables carboxypeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of plasminogen activation; nega...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regulationof leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to virus. ...
CYFIP1: Contributes to small GTPase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including Rac protein signal transduction; axon extension; andpositive regulation of cellula...
DCPS: Enables RNA 7-methylguanosine cap binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in RNA...
DENND5A: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in retrogradetransport, endosome ...
DHRS3: Predicted to enable NAD-retinol dehydrogenase activity. Predicted tobe involved in regulation of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway andretinoid metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or ...
DRC1: Involved in axonemal dynein complex assembly and cilium-dependent cellmotility. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm; ...
ECM1: Enables laminin binding activity and protease binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of bone mi...
EEF1AKMT1: Enables protein-lysine N-methyltransferase activity....
EMP1: Involved in bleb assembly an...
ENO3: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. ...
ENPP1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; hydrolaseactivity, acting on acid anhydrides, in phosphorus-containing anhydrides;and phosphoric ester hydrolase activity. Involved in several processes, includinginorganic diphosphate transport; negative regul...
EOMES: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin CD8-positive, alpha-beta T cell differentiation in...
ETFBKMT: Enables heat shock protein binding activity and protein-lysine N-methyltransferaseactivity. Involved in negative regulation of electron t...
ETV4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-...
F2RL2: Predicted to enable several functions, including enzyme activator activity;ion channel regulator activity; and proteinase-activated receptor ac...
FAH: Predicted to enable fumarylacetoacetase activity. Predicted to be involvedin L-phenylalanine catabolic process; homogentisate ...
FGL2: Predicted to enable peptidase activator activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in proteolysis. Predicted to actupstream of or within several processes, including T cell ...
FLT3LG: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and receptortyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in embryonic hemopoiesis and positiveregulation of cell population proliferation...
FURIN: Enables several functions, including glycosaminoglycan binding activity;nerve growth factor binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including protein processing; ...
GABARAPL1: Enables Tat protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Predicted to be involved ...
GADD45B: Involved in positive regulation of JNK cascade; positive regulation...
GALM: Enables aldose 1-epimerase activity. Involved in galactose catabolicprocess via UDP-galactose and g...
GATA1: Enables several functions, including C2H2 zinc finger domain bindingactivity; DNA binding activity; and DNA-binding transcription activator activity,RNA polymerase II-specific. Involved in several processes, including myeloidcell differentiation; regulation of erythrocyte differentiation; and regulatio...
GBP4: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto type II i...
GLIPR2: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in positive regulationof ERK1 and ERK2 cascade; positive regulati...
GPR65: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including actin c...
GPR83: Predicted to enable neuropeptide receptor activity. Predicted to beinvolved in neuropeptide signaling pathway ...
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity;and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved inarachidonic acid metabolic process;...
GSTO1: Enables glutathione dehydrogenase (ascorbate) activity and glutathionetransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including L-ascorbicacid metabo...
GUCY1B1: Enables guanylate cyclase activity. Involved in cGMP biosyntheticprocess and nitr...
HIPK2: Enables several functions, including SMAD binding activity; transcriptioncorepressor activity; and virion binding activity. Involved in several processes,including in...
HK2: Enables glucokinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of autophagy of mitochondrionin response to ...
HOPX: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in chaperone-mediatedprotein complex assem...
HUWE1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes,including circadian regulation of gene expression;...
ICOS: Predicted to be involved in T cell costimulation; T cell tolerance induction;and cell-cell adhesion. Predic...
IFITM3: Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of viral entry into host cell;...
IFNGR1: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including glial cell activation; negative regulationof amyloid-beta clearance; and positive regulation of macrom...
IGF1R: Enables several functions, including insulin binding activity; insulinreceptor binding activity; and insulin receptor substrate binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to amyloid-beta;insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway; and regulation of MAPKcascade. Acts upstream of or within peptidyl-tyrosine autophosphorylat...
IGF2R: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphoprotein bindingactivity; and retromer complex binding activity. Involved in positive regulationby host of viral process. Located in cell surface...
IKZF2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity; RNApolymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity;and identical protein binding activi...
IKZF4: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and zinc ion bindingacti...
IL10: Enables protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cellular catabolic process; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation of B cell proliferation;positive regulation of B cell apoptotic pro...
IL10RA: Predicted to enable interleukin-10 receptor activity. Involved innegative regulation of autophagy; positive regulat...
IL13: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and interleukin-13 receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofcomplement-dependent cytotoxicity; negative regulation of endothelial cellapoptotic process; and positive regulation of interleu...
IL18R1: Enables interleukin-18 binding activity and interleukin-18 receptoractivity. Involved in interleukin-18-mediated signaling pathway an...
IL1R2: Predicted to enable interleukin-1 binding activity and interleukin-1receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in immune response. Predictedto act upstream of or within negative regulation of gene expres...
IL1RL1: Predicted to enable interleukin-33 binding activity and interleukin-33receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. Predictedto act upstream of or within negative regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-...
IL2RA: Contributes to interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in regulationof T cell tolerance induction. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane.Predicted to be part of interleu...
IL2RB: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity; interleukin-2 binding activity;and interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signalingpathway; interleukin-2-mediated signaling pathway; and posit...
IL3RA: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity and interleukin-3 bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway.Predicted to act upstream of...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including defense response to protozoan; negative...
IRF4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cytokine productionand...
IRF6: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of cell population proliferation and positive regulationof t...
IRF8: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in ce...
ITGA6: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and neuregulinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including nail development;positive regulation of GTPase...
ITGAE: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including cell adhesion mediated by integrin; ce...
ITGAV: Enables several functions, including extracellular matrix protein bindingactivity; fibronectin binding activity; and integrin binding activity. Contributesto C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; negativeregulat...
ITIH5: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predictedto be involved ...
KLF6: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-speci...
LCLAT1: Enables 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Predicted...
LIF: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and leukemia inhibitoryfactor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingleukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathway; positive regulation of proteinphosphorylatio...
LRIG1: Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includinginnervation; otolith morphogenesis;...
LRRC8C: Enables volume-sensitive anion channel activity. Involved in cyclic-GMP-AMPtransmem...
LTB: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in positive regulation of interl...
MAFF: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA b...
MAP3K8: Predicted to enable MAP kinase kinase kinase activity. Predicted tobe involved in MAPK cascade and protein phosphorylation. Loca...
MAP6: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity. Involved in dendrite...
MAPKAPK2: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including peptidyl-serine phos...
MUC1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; p53 binding activity; and transcription coregulator activity.Involved in several processes, including DNA damage response, signal transductionby p53 class mediator; negative regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway in response to DNA dam...
MXD1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequenc...
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 bindingactivity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulationof fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compoundmetab...
MYO1C: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and small GTPase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofprotein targeting to membrane; positive regu...
MYO1E: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; actinfilament binding activity; and calmodulin bindi...
NCOA3: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; nuclear receptor binding activity; and transcription coactivatoractivity. Involved in cellular response to estradi...
NCS1: Predicted to enable calcium sensitive guanylate cyclase activator activityand voltage-gated calcium channel activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation...
NDRG1: Enables cadherin binding activity; small GTPase binding activity; andtubulin binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response, signal transductionby p53 ...
NFIL3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding acti...
NFKBIZ: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity and trans...
NOP2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cellpopulation proli...
NRP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and vascular endothelial growth factorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto hepatocyte growth factor stimulu...
NT5E: Enables several functions, including 5''-deoxynucleotidase activity;5''-nucleotidase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, includ...
ODC1: Enables ornithine decarboxylase activity. Involved in respo...
P2RX4: Enables several functions, including cadherin binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ligand-gated monoatomic cation channel activity.Involve...
P4HA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and procollagen-proline4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptidyl-prolin...
PDCD2L: Predicted to be involved in...
PENK: Predicted to enable opioid peptide activity and opioid receptor bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including chemicalsynaptic transmission; neuropeptide signaling pathway; and regulation of long-termsynaptic depressi...
PHLDA1: Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity.Predicted to be involved in po...
PHTF2: Located in en...
PIM1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; manganeseion binding activity; and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, ...
PLAGL1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulat...
PLEC: Enables ankyrin binding activity. A structural constituent of muscle.Involved in hemidesmosome assembly. Located in several cellular components,including focal adhe...
PLIN2: Involved in cellular response to glucose starvatio...
PLPP1: Enables ceramide-1-phosphate phosphatase activity; phosphatidate phosphataseactivity; and sphingosine-1-phosphate phosphatase activity...
PLSCR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; metal ion binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, in...
PNP: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;phosphate ion binding activity; and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase activity.Involved in several processes, including allantoin metabolic process; nucleobase-con...
POU2F1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity; and identical protein ...
PRAF2: Predicted to be involved in L-glutamate transmembrane trans...
PRKCH: Enables several functions, including protein serine/threonine kinasebinding activity; protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; andtranslation regulator activity. Involved i...
PRNP: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;cuprous ion binding activity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity.Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling usingintracellular calcium source; cellular response to am...
PTCH1: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity;cyclin binding activity; and hedgehog family protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cholesterol; chordateembryonic development; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Locatedin s...
PTGER2: Predicted to enable prostaglandin E receptor activity. Predicted tobe involved in several processes, including cellular response to prostaglandinE stimulus; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and positive regulati...
PTH1R: Enables several functions, including parathyroid hormone receptor activity;protein homodimerization activity; and protein self-association. Involvedin adenylate cyclase-a...
PTRH2: Enables aminoacyl-tRNA hydrolase activity. Involved in negative regulationof ano...
PUS1: Enables pseudouridine synthase activity; steroid receptor RNA activatorRNA binding activity; and tRNA binding activity. Invo...
RABGAP1L: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPase binding activity.Acts upstream of or wit...
RGS16: Enables GTPase activator activity. Involved...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
RHOH: Enables GTP binding activity and kinase inhibitor activity. Involvedin negative regulation of I-kappa...
RNH1: Enables ribonuclease inhibitor activity. Involved in regulat...
RORA: Enables several functions, including ligand-activated transcriptionfactor activity; oxysterol binding activity; and transcription coregulatorbinding activity. Involved in several proce...
RRAGD: Enables several functions, including GTPase binding activity; guanylribonucleotide binding activity; and protein heterodimerizati...
S100A1: Enables ATPase binding activity; S100 protein binding activity; andprotein homodimerization activity. Involved in positive regulatio...
SCN9A: Enables voltage-gated sodium channel activity. Involved in sensoryperception of pain and sodium ion transmembr...
SELL: Enables calcium ion binding activity; oligosaccharide binding activity;and protease binding activity. Involved in calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesionvia plasma membrane cell...
SELP: Enables several functions, including fucose binding activity; heparinbinding activity; and lipopolysaccharide binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion via plasma membranecell adhesion molecules; calcium-mediated signalin...
SERPINB6: Enables protease binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseinhibitor activity. Involved in cellular response to osmotic stress; negat...
SERPINC1: Enables identical protein binding activity and protease bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidaseactivity. Located in extracellular space. Part of collagen...
SH3BGRL2: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding...
SHE: Predicted to enable phos...
SLC1A5: Enables L-glutamine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved inglutamine transport and protein homotrimeriz...
SLC29A2: Enables neurotransmitter transmembrane transporter activity; purinenucleoside transmembrane transporter activity; and uridine trans...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity; and hexose transmembrane transporter activity. Involvedin galactose tra...
SLC39A8: Enables selenite:proton symporter activity and transition metal iontransmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, includingintracellular zinc ion homeostasis; monoatomic cation transmembrane transport;and pla...
SMPDL3A: Enables phosphoric diester hydrolase activity and zinc ion binding...
SNX14: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Involvedin autophagos...
SNX9: Enables several functions, including 1-phosphatidylinositol bindingactivity; Arp2/3 complex binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton-dependent cytoki...
SOCS1: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in macrophage differentiation; negativeregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein; and positive regulationof regulatory T cell differentiation. Locate...
SOCS2: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity. Involvedin growth hormone receptor signaling pathway and response to estradiol. Predic...
SPP1: Enables integrin binding activity; ion binding activity; and small moleculebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including androgen catabolicprocess; cellular response to testosterone stimulus; and positive regulationof estradiol secretion. Located in G...
SPRED2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation...
SPRY4: Enables protein kinase inhibitor activity. Involved in negative regulationof substrate ...
ST3GAL4: Enables sialyltransferase activity. Involved in several processes,including lipid g...
SWAP70: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulationof small GTPase mediated...
SYNGR2: Predicted to be involved in regulated exocytosis and synaptic vesiclemembr...
SYT11: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding a...
TGM2: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; N-acyltransferaseactivity; and protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular...
TIAM1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and kinase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including Rac protein signal transducti...
TLR7: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes,including I-kappaB phosphorylation; cellular response to mechanical stimulus;and positive re...
TNFRSF18: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor activity. Involvedin positive regulation of cell adhesion; positive regulation of leukocytemigration; and posi...
TNFRSF1B: Enables tumor necrosis factor binding activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to lipopolysaccharideand positive regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis. Locatedin membrane raft. Implicated i...
TNFRSF21: Involved in apoptotic process; cellular response to tumor ...
TNFRSF4: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of apoptoticprocess; positive regulation of B cell proliferation; and regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription. ...
TNFRSF8: Predicted to enable transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involvedin cellular response to mechanical st...
TNFRSF9: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity; identical proteinbinding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of cell population proliferation. Predicted to ...
TNFSF10: Enables identical protein binding activity and zinc ion binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic proc...
TNFSF11: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of MAPK cascade; positive regulation of cell-cell adhesion;an...
TRAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and tumor necrosis factor receptor binding activity. Involved in positiver...
TTC39B: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cholester...
TWSG1: Enables transforming growth factor beta binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-betaT cell prolifera...
UCK2: Enables cytidine kinase activity; identical protein binding activity;and uridine ki...
UMPS: Enables identical protein binding activity; orotate phosphoribosyltransferaseactivity; and orotidine-5''-phosphate ...
WLS: Enables Wnt-protein binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of...
XBP1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; enzyme bindingactivity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including posit...
////
ABI1: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and signaling adaptor activity.Acts upstream of or within peptidyl-...
ABL1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; metal ionbinding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; regulation ofcytoskeleton organization; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Actsupstream of or within several processe...
ABR: Enables GTPase activator activity and guanyl-nucleotide exc...
ACTN4: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; nuclearreceptor coactivator activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including intracellular receptor signaling pathway;negative regul...
AKAP13: Enables several functions, including MAP-kinase scaffold activity;guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and small GTPase binding activity.Involved in adren...
ALMS1: Predicted to enable alpha-actinin binding activity and microtubulebinding activity. Acts upstream of or...
ALS2: Enables enzyme activator activity; protein homodimerization activity;and small GTPase binding activity. Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchangefactor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationof GTPase activity; positive regulatio...
ANLN: Enables actin binding activity. Involved in podocyte cell migrationand positive regulation of bleb assembly. Acts upstream o...
APC: Enables several functions, including beta-catenin binding activity; dyneincomplex binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including insulin receptor signaling pathway; negative regulationof cell cycle; and positive regulation of protein localization to centrosome.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulationof protein catabolic process; posit...
ARAP3: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity andphosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin negative regulation of Rac protein signal transdu...
ARF6: Enables G protein activity; guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity;and thioesterase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of acti...
ARFGEF1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; myosin bindingactivity; and protein kinase A regulatory subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of GTPase activity; negati...
ARFIP2: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; membrane curvature sensor activity; and phosphatidylinositol-4-...
ARHGAP10: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytoskeleton organization and n...
ARHGAP27: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity and SH3 domain bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved ...
ARHGAP29: Enables PDZ domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved ...
ARHGAP4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be...
ARHGAP5: Enables SH2 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved inRho protein signal transduction and regulation of cell size. Predicted toac...
ARHGDIA: Predicted to enable Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. Involvedin regulation of Rho protein s...
ARHGEF11: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involved inRho protein signal transduction and positive regul...
ARHGEF12: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Acts up...
ARHGEF2: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; microtubule bindingactivity; and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to muramyl dipeptide; positive regulation o...
ARHGEF3: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predicted...
ARHGEF7: Enables gamma-tubulin binding activity; guanyl-nucleotide exchangefactor activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including neg...
ARL8A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in anterogra...
ATG4B: Enables Atg8-specific peptidase activity; endopeptidase activity; andscaffold protein binding activity. I...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serinephosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upst...
BCAR1: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; cellular response to hepatocy...
BCL2L11: Contributes to microtubule binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic process; positive regulation of apoptotic p...
BCR: Enables GTPase activator activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factoractivity. Involved in several processes, including activation of GTPase activity;focal adhesion as...
BIN1: Enables several functions, including aspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including T-tubule organization; negative regulationof amyl...
BIRC5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; protein dimerization activity; andsmall GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including G2/Mtransition of mitotic cell cycle; negative regulation of nitrogen compoundme...
BRCA2: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;histone acetyltransferase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; establishmentof protein localization to telomere; and histone acetylati...
BUB1: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Involved in regulationof chromosome segregat...
CAPZB: Enables actin binding activity. Involved in cytoskeleton organizat...
CCDC88A: Enables several functions, including GTPase regulator activity; growthfactor receptor binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involvedin several processes, i...
CCNB2: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitoticcell cycle phase transition; negative regulation of meiotic cell cycle processinvolved in oocyte maturati...
CD2AP: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in actin filament organization; negative regulation of small GTPasemediated signal transduction; ...
CDC27: Enables protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in protein K11-linkedubiquitination. Acts upstream of o...
CDC42: Enables several functions, including GBD domain binding activity; GTPbinding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation ofcellu...
CDC42BPA: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ...
CDC42EP1: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion.Involved in posi...
CDC42EP2: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPase binding activity.Involved in actin cytoskeleton organiza...
CDC42EP4: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation ofpseudopod...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition ofmitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupledelectron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located ...
CDK5RAP2: Enables several functions, including calmodulin binding activity;protein kinase binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; positiveregulation of D...
CENPE: Enables kinetochore binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, including chromosomeorganizati...
CENPF: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; dynein complexbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including metaphase plate c...
CENPJ: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;identical protein binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity.Involved in microtubule cytoskeleton organization; positive regulation ofcell cycle process; and positive regulation of establishment ...
CEP131: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including intraciliary transport involved in cilium assembly; protein localizat...
CEP192: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Involved in centrosome-templatedmicrotubule nucleation; mitotic spindle assembly;...
CEP250: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cent...
CEP57: Enables fibroblast growth factor binding activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in fibrobl...
CEP72: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved ingamma-tubulin complex localization; mi...
CKAP5: Enables microtubule binding activity and ribonucleoprotein complexbinding activity. Involved in establishment or maintenance of microtubulecytoskeleton polarity; positive regulation of m...
CLASP1: Enables dystroglycan binding activity; kinetochore binding activity;and microtubule plus-end binding activity. Involved in several processes,including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; negative regulation of sup...
CLIP1: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule plus-end bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved i...
CLIP2: Predicted to enable microtubule plus-end binding activity. Predictedto be involved in cytoplasmic microtubule organization....
CNTRL: Predicted to enable cytoskeletal protein binding activity. Predictedto be involved in cell division and regulation of cytoskeleton ...
CNTROB: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in centriolerepl...
CSNK1D: Enables protein serine kinase activity; protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity; and tau-protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including microtubule cytoskeleton organization...
CTTN: Enables profilin binding activity. Involved in intracellular proteintransport; positive regulation of actin filament polymerization; and positiveregul...
CYTH2: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity andinositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate...
DLG1: Enables several functions, including L27 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; negative re...
DLGAP5: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several processes, including centro...
DOCK2: Enables T cell receptor binding activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchangefactor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingmacropinocytosis; myeloid dendritic cell activation...
DOCK4: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and guanyl-nucleotideexchange factor activity. Involved in cell chemotaxis; negative regula...
DST: Enables integrin binding activity; microtubule plus-end binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcytoskeleton organiza...
DYNC1H1: Enables dynein light intermediate chain binding activity. Contributesto minus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes,including establishment of spindle localization; regulation of metaphase platecongression...
DYNLL2: Predicted to enable dynein intermediate chain binding activity anddynein light intermediate chain binding ...
ECT2: Enables GTPase activator activity; guanyl-nucleotide exchange factoractivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including activa...
EPB41: Enables 1-phosphatidylinositol binding activity and phosphoproteinbinding activity. Involved in positive regulation of protein binding activity;positive regulation of ...
EPB41L2: Predicted to enable PH domain binding activity; cytoskeletal proteinbinding activity; and structural molecule activity. Involved i...
ESPL1: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activ...
EZR: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; cytoskeletalprotein binding activity; and protein kinase A binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; negative regulationo...
FARP1: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predictedto be involved in dendrite morphogenesis and synapse assembly. Predicted tobe...
FBXO5: Enables several functions, including anaphase-promoting complex bindingactivity; molecular function inhibitor activity; and ubiquitin ligase inhibitoractivit...
FGD4: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and smallGTPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingfilopodium assembly; regulation of GTPase activity; and regu...
FGD6: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and smallGTPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several proces...
FLNA: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; protein localizationto membrane; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. A...
FLNB: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes,including cellular res...
FSCN1: Enables actin filament binding activity. Involved in several processes,including microspike assembly; positive regulation of cellular component organization;and regulation of...
GEMIN4: Enables ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Involved in spliceosomalsnRNP assembly. Located in C...
GSN: Enables calcium ion binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity;and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin filament organizatio...
HDAC6: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;enzyme binding activity; and protein lysine deacetylase activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of cellular componentorganization; protein deacetylation; and regulation of ...
HOOK3: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;dynein intermediate chain binding activity; and dynein light chain bindingactivity. Involved i...
INCENP: Enables molecular function activator activity. Involved in chromosomesegregation and mitotic cytokinesis. ...
ITSN1: Enables molecular adaptor activity and proline-rich region bindingactivity. Involved...
KATNA1: Enables microtubule binding activity; microtubule severing ATPaseactivity; and protein hete...
KATNB1: Enables ATPase regulator activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in negative regulation of microtubule depolyme...
KIF11: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindleassembly and regulation of mitotic centrosome separation. Located in cytosol;mic...
KIF15: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;...
KIF1B: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. Predicted to be involvedin chemical synaptic transmission; dense core granule cytoskeletal transport;and vesicle-mediated transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within...
KIF20B: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; WW domainbinding activity; and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. In...
KIF22: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitotic m...
KIF23: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in mitotic cytokinesis;mitotic spindle midzone assembly; and positive regulat...
KIF2C: Enables microtubule plus-end binding activity. Involved in attachmentof mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore; microtubule cyto...
KIF3B: Enables small GTPase binding activity. Involved in cilium organization;mitotic spindle as...
KIF3C: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Predicted to be involved in microtubul...
KIF4A: Predicted to enable microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitoticcytokinesis and mitot...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, inclu...
KIFAP3: Enables kinesin binding activity and protein phosphatase binding activity.Predicted to be involved in cilium organization and microtubule-based movement.Predicted to act upstream of or within several pr...
KLC1: Predicted to enable kinesin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule-based movement; protein localization to synapse;...
KNTC1: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in mitoticspin...
KPTN: Enables actin filament binding activity. Involved in cellular responseto starvation; negative regulation of TORC1 signaling; and protein localizat...
LATS1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and nuclear estrogen receptor bi...
LLGL1: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in cortical actincyt...
LMNB1: Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involvedin nuclear envelope organization. Located in nuclear lami...
LRPPRC: Enables beta-tubulin binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of mitochondrialtranslation. Predicted to act upstream of or within negati...
MAP1S: Enables DNA binding activity and cytoskeletal protein binding activity.Involved in metaphase plate congression; microtubule cyto...
MAP3K11: Enables JUN kinase kinase kinase activity; mitogen-activated proteinkinase kinase kinase binding activity; and protein homodime...
MAPRE1: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;microtubule plus-end binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, includi...
MARCKS: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in actin filament organization; central ne...
MARK4: Enables protein kinase activity and tubulin binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cilium assembly; positiveregulation of protein localizatio...
MID1: Enables several functions, including microtubule binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity.Involved in po...
MID1IP1: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of mi...
MYH10: Enables several functions, including RNA binding activity; actin filamentbinding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved inactomyosin structure organization and...
MYH9: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto actin filament binding activity and microfilament motor activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; myeloid celldifferentiation; and negative regul...
MYO1E: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; actinfilament binding activity; and calmodulin bindi...
MYO9B: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; Roundaboutbinding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved inRoundabout signal...
NCK1: Enables several functions, including eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2binding activity; molecular condensate scaffold activity; and receptor tyrosinekinase binding activity. Involved in several processes...
NCK2: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation o...
NDC80: Enables identical protein binding activity and kinetochore adaptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including chromosome organization;microtubule cytoskeleton organization involved in mitosis; and positi...
NEDD9: Enables protein tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cilium disassembly; positive regulation of protein ...
NEK2: Enables protein kinase activity and protein phosphatase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including centrosome separation; positive re...
NET1: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular respo...
NF1: Enables GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylcholine binding activity;and phosphatidylethanolamine binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of GTPase activity; regulation of angiogenesis;and regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. Acts upstream ofor within negative regulat...
NIN: Predicted to enable several functions, including GTP binding activity;calcium ion binding activity; and microtubule minus-end binding activity.Involved ...
NOTCH2: Predicted to enable several functions, including NF-kappaB bindingactivity; calcium ion binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular resp...
NUMA1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; dynein complex binding activity; and microtubule binding activity.Involved in several processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization;regul...
NUSAP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including establishment of mitotic spindle localization; mitotic chromosomecondensa...
OPHN1: Enables phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes,including establishment of epithelial cell apical/basal polarity; neuron different...
PAFAH1B1: Enables dynein complex binding activity. Involved in several processes,including adult locomotory behavior; microtubule cytoskeleton organization;and nervous system development...
PALLD: Predicted to enable cell-cell adhesion mediator activity. Predictedto be involved in axon guidance; dendrite self-avoidance; and homophilic celladhesion via plasma membrane adhesion molecules. Predicted to act u...
PCGF5: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Acts upstream of orwithin positive regul...
PCM1: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cilium assembly; microtubule cytoskeleton organizatio...
PCNT: Predicted to enable calmodulin binding activity and molecular adaptoractivity. Involved in mitotic spindle organization and positive regulationof intracel...
PDLIM5: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion.Predicted to be involved in actin cytoskele...
PIF1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; helicaseactivity; and magnesium ion binding activit...
PKD2: Enables several functions, including HLH domain binding activity; monoatomiccation channel activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto calcium channel activity. Involved in several processes, including kidneydevelopment; monoatomic cation transmembrane trans...
PLEKHG2: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity....
PLK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; anaphase-promotingcomplex binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; regulationof cell cycle process; and regulation of protein m...
PPP4R2: Enables protein phosphatase regulator activity and protein-macromoleculeadaptor activity. Involved in...
PRC1: Enables identical protein binding activity; kinesin binding activity;and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in po...
PREX1: Enables phospholipid binding activity. Predicted to be involved inG protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream ofor with...
PXN: Enables several functions, including beta-catenin binding activity; neuropilinbinding activity; and vinculin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including ...
RAB3GAP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPase binding activity.Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including establishment of protein localization to endopl...
RABGAP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPase bi...
RACGAP1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cytoskeleton-dependent cy...
RALBP1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; smallGTPase binding activity; and xenobiotic transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in several processes, includin...
RANBP9: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ...
RAPGEF5: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity and guanyl-nucleotideexchange factor activi...
RAPGEF6: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and phosphatidic acidbinding activit...
RASA1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; GTPasebinding activity; and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved inseveral processe...
RASA2: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predicted to be inv...
RASAL2: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predic...
RFC1: Enables DNA clamp unloader activity. Involved in DNA clamp unloading.Located ...
RHOF: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and protei...
RHOT2: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involvedin cellular homeostasis...
RICTOR: Enables molecular adaptor activity and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including actin cytoskeleton reorganization;peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and regulatio...
ROCK1: Enables Rho-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity andaspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in se...
SAC3D1: Predicted to be involved in centrosome duplication and spindle assembly.Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of receptor signaling...
SASS6: Involved in centriole replication; positive regulation of G1/S transitionof mitotic cell cycle; and positive regulation...
SEPTIN9: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof non-motile cilium assembly. Located in...
SHROOM1: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and myosin IIbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in actin filament bundle assemblyand...
SHROOM2: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity; beta-cateninbinding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including apical protein loc...
SMC1A: Enables chromatin binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in chromosome organization; response to DNA damage checkpoint signaling;and response to radia...
SMC3: Enables beta-tubulin binding activity; dynein complex binding activity;and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in chromosome orga...
SMC4: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosomecondensat...
SORBS2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin Notch signaling pathway and cell growth involved in cardiac muscle celldevelopment. Predicted to act upstream of or within...
SOS1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including Ras protein signal transduction; regulation of MAP kinaseactivity; and regulation of transcri...
SPTAN1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actincytoskeleton organization. L...
SPTBN1: Enables GTPase binding activity and ankyrin binding activity. A structuralconstituent of cytoskeleton. Involved in several processes...
SSH2: Enables actin binding activity and phosphoprotein phosphatase activity....
STAU1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation by virusof viral protein levels in host cell and ...
STK38L: Enables ATP binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; andprotein serine/threonine k...
SUN2: Enables cytoskeleton-nuclear membrane anchor activity; identical proteinbinding activity; and lamin binding activity. Involved in nuclear matrix an...
SYNPO: Predicted to enable actin binding activity. Involved in modificationof dend...
TAOK2: Enables mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase binding activity; neuropilinbinding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved ...
TBCD: Enables GTPase activator activity and beta-tubulin binding activity.Involved in several processes, incl...
TIAM1: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and kinase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including Rac protein signal transducti...
TLK1: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Involved in several pr...
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation;and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA re...
TPX2: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved in activation of protein kinase acti...
TRIO: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involvedin neuron projection morphogenesis and postsynaptic modulation of chemicals...
TSC1: Enables ATPase inhibitor activity; Hsp70 protein binding activity; andHsp90 protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activationof GTPase activity; positive regulation of focal adhesion assembly; and regulationof protein metabolic proce...
TTK: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activity and proteinserine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of metaphase/anaph...
TUBA4A: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule cyt...
TUBD1: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be a structuralconstituent of cytoskeleton. Predicted to b...
TUBGCP2: Predicted to enable gamma-tubulin binding activity. Predicted tocontribute to microtubule minus-end binding activity. Involved in...
TUBGCP3: Enables gamma-tubulin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin meiotic cell c...
TUBGCP5: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in microtub...
TUBGCP6: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in microtubule nucleation.L...
UXT: Enables beta-tubulin binding activity; chromatin binding activity; andtranscription corepressor activity. Involved in centros...
VCL: Enables several functions, including alpha-catenin binding activity;dystroglycan binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cell-cell junction assembly; proteinlocalization...
WASF1: Enables protein kinase A binding activity. Contributes to small GTPasebinding activity. Involved in several proc...
WASF2: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and protein kinase A binding activity.Involved in negativ...
WASL: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including actin ...
YWHAE: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; ion channelregulator activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, in...
////
ABCA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and floppase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; lipid transport; and secretion by cell. Located in several cellular components, including cytoplasmic vesicle; membra...
ABCB8: Enables ATP binding activity. Involved in cell volume homeostasis and mitochondrial potassium ion transmembrane transport. Locat...
ACAA2: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity and acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia; negative regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeabilit...
ACADL: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity; long-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including carnitine metabolic process; fatty acid cata...
ACADM: Enables identical protein binding activity and medium-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process and fatty acid cat...
ACADS: Enables acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Locat...
ACLY: Enables ATP citrate synthase activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process; carboxylic acid meta...
ACO2: Enables aconitate hydratase activity and iron ion binding activity. Acts upstream of or within citrate metabolic process and tric...
ACOX1: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; PDZ domain binding activity; and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostas...
ADCY6: Enables adenylate cyclase activity and protein kinase C binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cAMP biosynthetic process; cellular response to alcohol; and d...
ADIG: Predicted to be involved in brown fat cell differentiation; positive regulation of fat cell differentiation; and white fat cell differenti...
ADIPOQ: Enables hormone activity; protein homodimerization activity; and sialic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell communication; negative regulation of cell differentiation; and negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in cell surface and extracellular space. Part of collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Implicated in several disea...
ADIPOR2: Enables adipokinetic hormone receptor activity and adiponectin binding activity. Involved in adiponectin-activated signaling pathway. Located in p...
AGPAT3: Enables 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involved in phosphat...
AIFM1: Enables DNA binding activity; FAD binding activity; and NAD(P)H oxidase H2O2-forming activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; mitochondrion organization; and neuron differentiation...
AK2: Enables adenylate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleobase-containing small mole...
ALDH2: Enables aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity and nitroglycerin reductase activity. Involved in aldehyde catabolic process. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in several disease...
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphate aldolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including binding activity of sperm to z...
ANGPT1: Enables identical protein binding activity and receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positive regulation of protein modification process; and regulation of vascular permeabilit...
ANGPTL4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process; negati...
APLP2: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in axonogenesis and central nervous system development. Predicted to ac...
APOE: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity; and lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including lipid transport; regulation of lipid transport; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within with a positive effect on AMPA glutamate receptor clustering and NMDA glutamate receptor clustering. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of dendritic spine development; positive regulation of dendritic spine development; and regulation of dendritic spine maintenance. Located in several cellular components, including G...
ARAF: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process; regulation of TOR signaling; a...
ARL4A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular protein transport and vesicle-mediated transport. Pred...
ATL2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in Golgi organization; endoplasmic reticulum tubular network me...
ATP1B3: Enables ATPase activator activity; ATPase binding activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular monoatomic cation homeostasis; monoatomic...
ATP5PO: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Located in mitochon...
BAZ2A: Enables histone binding activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase I core promoter sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in DNA methylation; histone deacety...
BCKDHA: Enables 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (2-methylpropanoyl-transferring) activity. Involved in branched-chain amino acid catabolic proc...
BCL2L13: Predicted to be involved in apoptotic process and regulation ...
BCL6: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription; negative regulation of cell growth; and positive regulat...
C3: Enables C5L2 anaphylatoxin chemotactic receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including opsonization; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in extracellular space; plasma membrane; and serine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicated in several diseases, incl...
CAT: Enables several functions, including catalase activity; heme binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including UV protection; cellular detoxification of hydrogen peroxide; and hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in catalase complex and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. Part of protein-containing...
CAVIN1: Enables identical protein binding activity and rRNA primary transcript binding activity. Involved in termination of RNA polymerase I transcription and transcription initiation at...
CAVIN2: Enables phosphatidylserine binding activity. Involved in plasma me...
CCNG2: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transition and regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Predicted to act up...
CD151: Enables integrin binding activity. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of endocytosis; an...
CD302: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Acts upstream of...
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by cellular catabolic process; lipid transport; and second-messenger-mediated signaling. Located in several cellular components, including Golgi apparatus; cell surface; an...
CDKN2C: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negat...
CHCHD10: Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial nucleoid organization; oxidative phosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrion organizati...
CHUK: Enables several functions, including protein dimerization activity; scaffold protein binding activity; and transferrin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; positive regu...
CIDEA: Predicted to enable protein homodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of lipid catabolic process and...
CMBL: Predicted to enable hydrolase activity. Predicted to be involved in...
CMPK1: Enables UMP kinase activity and nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Involved in UDP biosynthetic process and nucleoside...
COL15A1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. Predicted to be involved in angiogenesis; endothelial cell m...
COL4A1: Enables platelet-derived growth factor binding activity. An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. Involved in basement membrane organization; brain development; and tube mo...
COQ3: Enables O-methyltransferase activity. Involved in glycerol metabolic process and ubiquinone biosy...
COQ5: Enables 2-octaprenyl-6-methoxy-1,4-benzoquinone methylase activity. Involved in methylation and ubiquinone biosynthetic process. Located in mitochondrial matrix and ubi...
COQ9: Enables lipid binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involved in ubiquinone biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within mitochon...
COX6A1: Predicted to enable enzyme regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxyge...
COX7B: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Involved in central nervous system development. Located in mitoc...
COX8A: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in generation of precursor metabolites and e...
CPT2: Enables carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation; and long-chain fatty acid metabo...
CRAT: Enables acyl-CoA oxidase activity and carnitine O-acetyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process, CoA-linked and fa...
CS: Enables citrate (Si)-synthase activity. Involved in carbohy...
CYC1: Predicted to enable heme binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron...
CYP4B1: Predicted to enable monooxygenase activity and oxygen binding activity. Predicted to be involved...
DBT: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in branched-chain amino acid catabolic process. Loca...
DDT: Enables D-dopachrome decarboxylase activity; cytokine receptor binding activity; and phenylpyruvate tautomerase activity. Involved in negative regulation of macro...
DECR1: Enables 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity; NADPH binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Inv...
DGAT1: Enables diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in diacylglycerol metabolic process; monoacylglycerol biosynthetic process; and very-low-density lipo...
DHCR7: Enables 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase activity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process. Locat...
DHRS7: Enables NADP-retinol dehydrogenase activity and carbonyl reductase (NADPH) activity. Predicte...
DHRS7B: Predicted to enable acylglycerone-phosphate reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in ether lipid biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within severa...
DLAT: Enables dihydrolipoyllysine-residue acetyltransferase activity and identical protein binding activity. Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA bios...
DLD: Enables dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate; branched-chain amino acid catabolic process; and histone succinylation. Located in m...
DNAJB9: Enables misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in ubiqui...
DNAJC15: Predicted to enable ATPase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in protein import into mitochondrial matrix. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including cellular response to starvation; negative regulation of mitoch...
DRAM2: Involved in photoreceptor cell maintenance; regulation of autophagy; and visual perc...
ECH1: Predicted to enable delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase activity. Predicted to be...
ECHS1: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Involved in fa...
ELMOD3: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of catalytic activity. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including cytoskeleton...
ELOVL6: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid elongation, saturated fatty acid and long-chain...
ENPP2: Enables calcium ion binding activity; lysophospholipase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular lipid catabolic process; positive regula...
EPHX2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity; phosphatase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis;...
ESRRA: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity; protein domain specific binding activity; and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of DNA-te...
ESYT1: Enables identical protein binding activity and phospholipid transfer activity. Invo...
ETFB: Enables electron transfer activity. Involved in amino acid catabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogenase; and respiratory electron...
FABP4: Predicted to enable long-chain fatty acid binding activity and long-chain fatty acid transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in long-chain fatty acid transport; positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis; and positive regulation of fat cell p...
FAH: Predicted to enable fumarylacetoacetase activity. Predicted to be involved in L-phenylalanine catabolic process; homogentisate catabolic process; and tyrosine ...
FZD4: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; protein dimerization activity; and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway involved in cell-cell si...
G3BP2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of stress granule assembly...
GADD45A: Enables kinase binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to m...
GBE1: Enables 1,4-alpha-glucan branching enzyme activity. Involved in glycogen biosynthetic process. Locate...
GHITM: Involved in inner mitochondrial membrane organization and negative regulation of re...
GPAM: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Involved in phosphatidylglycerol biosynthetic process and triglyceride bio...
GPAT4: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. Involved in acyl-CoA metabolic process ...
GPD2: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (quinone) activity. Predicted to be involved in glycerophosphate shuttle. Predicted to act upstream of or within cam...
GPHN: Enables identical protein binding activity; molybdopterin cofactor binding activity; and nitrate reductase activity. Involved in gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor clustering; molybdopterin cofac...
GPX3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and selenium binding activity. Predicted to be involved in hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular oxidant detoxification. Located in extracellular space. Impli...
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved in arachidonic acid metabolic process; lipoxygenase pathway; and protein polymerizati...
GRPEL1: Enables identical protein binding activity and unfolded protein binding activity. Predicted to be invo...
HADH: Enables 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; NAD+ binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in fa...
HIBCH: Enables 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase activity. Predicted to be...
HSPB8: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular response to unfolded protein and positive regulation of aggrephagy. Located in cytosol and nuclear...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol and ...
IDH3A: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid ...
IDH3G: Enables magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Lo...
IFNGR1: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including glial cell activation; negative regulation of amyloid-beta clearance; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Predicted to act upstream...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cristae formation. Lo...
ITGA7: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to contribute to laminin binding activity. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation and heterotypic cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including muscle tendon junction; neuromuscular ...
ITIH5: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in hyaluronan metabolic...
ITSN1: Enables molecular adaptor activity and proline-rich region binding activity. Involved in protein localizati...
JAGN1: Involved in granulocyte colony-stimulating factor signaling pathway; neutrophil differentiation; and vesicl...
LAMA4: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act ...
LEP: Enables leptin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of signal transduction; regulation of cytokine production; and regulation of lymphocyte proliferation. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases, inc...
LIFR: Enables ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding activity and growth factor binding activity. Contributes to leukemia inhibitory factor receptor activity and oncostatin-M receptor activity. Involved in ciliary neurotrophic factor-mediated signaling pathway; leukemia inhibitory factor si...
LIPE: Enables carboxylic ester hydrolase activity. Predicted to be involved in diacylglycerol catabolic process; ether lipid metabolic process; and triglyceride catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular...
LPCAT3: Enables 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferase activity; 1-acylglycerophosphoethanolamine O-acyltransferase activity; and 1-acylglycerophosphoserine O-acyltransferase activity. Involved...
LPL: Enables several functions, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity; heparin binding activity; and lipase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; positive regulation of lipid storage; and triglyceride-rich lipoprotein particle remo...
LTC4S: Enables identical protein binding activity; leukotriene-C4 synthase activity; and lipid binding activity. Involved in long-chain fatty acid biosynt...
MAP4K3: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including pr...
MCCC1: Contributes to methylcrotonoyl-CoA carboxylase activity. Predicted to be involved in leucine catabolic process. Located in 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase comp...
MDH2: Enables L-malate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in aerobic respiration and malate metabolic pr...
ME1: Enables several functions, including malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating) (NADP+) activity; metal ion binding activity; and oxaloacetate decarboxylase activity. Invo...
MGLL: Enables acylglycerol lipase activity and protein homodimerization activit...
MGST3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and leukotriene-C4 synthase activity. Involved in leu...
MIGA2: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein homodimerization ...
MRAP: Enables identical protein binding activity and melanocortin receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; protein localization to plasma membrane; ...
MRPL15: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in translation. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular...
MTARC2: Enables molybdenum ion binding activity; molybdopterin cofactor binding activity; and oxidoreductase activity, acting on other nitrogenous compounds as donors...
MTCH2: Acts upstream of or within protein localization to...
MYLK: Enables myosin light chain kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including aorta smooth muscle tissue morphogenesis; bleb assembly; and cellular hypotonic response. Located in several cellular components, i...
NABP1: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; mitotic G2/M transi...
NDUFA5: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Lo...
NDUFAB1: Predicted to enable acyl binding activity; acyl carrier activity; and fatty acid binding activity. Involved in [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; and...
NDUFB7: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner mem...
NDUFS3: Enables NADH dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; and negative regulatio...
NKIRAS1: Predicted to enable GTPase activating protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in Ral protein signal transduction and surfactant homeostasis. Predicted to act...
NMT1: Enables glycylpeptide N-tetradecanoyltransferase activity and peptidyl-lysine N6-myristoyltransferase activity. Involved in N-terminal peptidyl-...
OMD: Predicted to be involved in cell adhesion and regulation o...
ORM1: Involved in regulation of cytokine prod...
PDCD4: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell differentiation; negative regulation of vascula...
PEMT: Predicted to enable phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involved in phosphatidylcholine biosynthetic process and positive regulation of cold-induced...
PEX14: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; transcription corepressor activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including peroxisome transport along microtubule; protein...
PFKFB3: Enables 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in ...
PFKL: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity; anion binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes, including fructose 1,6-bisphosphat...
PGM1: Enables magnesium ion binding activity and phosphoglucomutase activity. Involved in glucose metabolic process. Located ...
PHLDB1: Involved in regulation of embryonic development; regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition; and regulation of microtubule ...
PHYH: Enables L-ascorbic acid binding activity; ferrous iron binding activity; and phytanoyl-CoA dioxygenase activity. Involved in carboxylic acid metabolic process and isopren...
PIM3: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic ...
PLIN2: Involved in cellular response to glucose starvation; lipid drop...
POR: Enables NADPH-hemoprotein reductase activity. Involved in cellular organofluorine metabolic process; electron transport chain; and positive regulation of monooxygen...
PPARG: Enables several functions, including R-SMAD binding activity; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of lipid storage; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of signal transduction and...
PPM1B: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of interferon-beta producti...
PPP1R15B: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase regulator activity. Involved in negative re...
PRDX3: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity; and thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including peptidyl-cysteine oxidation; pos...
PREB: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved ...
PTCD3: Enables rRNA binding activity and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial translation. Located in several cel...
PTGER3: Predicted to enable prostaglandin E receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; negative regulation of gastric acid secretion; and positive regulation of fe...
QDPR: Enables 6,7-dihydropteridine reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in L-phenylalanine catabolic process and tetrahydrobio...
RAB34: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasma membrane protein...
REEP5: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum membrane organization and regulat...
REEP6: Involved in detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception. Located in endopla...
RETN: Predicted to enable hormone activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including negative regulation of feeding behavior; positive regulation of cell communication; and response to insulin. Located in extracellular exosome. Implicated in hypertensi...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predict...
RIOK3: Enables caspase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to organic cyclic...
RMDN3: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in intracellular calcium ion homeostasis. Located in sev...
RNF11: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in protein autoubiquitination and ubiquitin-depend...
RREB1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
RTN3: Involved in endoplasmic reticulum tubular network formation and negative regulation of a...
SAMM50: Involved in cristae formation; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex assembly; and protein insertion into mitochondr...
SCARB1: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein A-I binding activity; high-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; and lipopolysaccharide binding activity. Involved i...
SCP2: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; cholesterol binding activity; and lipid transfer activity. Involved in several processes, including inositol trisphosphate bios...
SDHB: Predicted to enable iron-sulfur cluster binding activity and ubiquinone binding activity. Predicted to be involved in aerobic respiration and respiratory electron transport chain. Located in mitoch...
SDHC: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, succinate to ubiquinone. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Predicted to be part of mitoc...
SLC19A1: Enables 2',3'-cyclic GMP-AMP binding activity and organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in cyclic-GMP-AMP transmembrane import across plasma membrane; folate import across plasma membrane; and methotrexa...
SLC1A5: Enables L-glutamine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in glutamine transport and protein homotrimerization. Located in plasma mem...
SLC25A1: Enables citrate secondary active transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in mitochondrial citrate transmembrane transport. Located in extracellular ...
SLC25A10: Predicted to enable C4-dicarboxylate transmembrane transporter activity; antiporter activity; and sulfur compound transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, incl...
SLC27A1: Enables biotin transmembrane transporter activity; efflux transmembrane transporter activity; and long-chain fatty acid transporter activity. Involved in several processes, inclu...
SLC5A6: Enables biotin transmembrane transporter activity and pantothenate transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in iodide trans...
SLC66A3: Predicted to be lo...
SNCG: Predicted to enable cuprous ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including chemical synaptic transmission; regulation of neuron death; and synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Predicted to act upstream of or within adult locomotory behavior; regulation of dopamine sec...
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxide dismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negative regulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of superoxide anion generation. Located in several cellular components, including dendrite cytoplasm; neuronal cell body; and peroxisome. Part of p...
SORBS1: Enables insulin receptor binding activity and signaling receptor complex adaptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including focal adhesion assembly; positive regulation of biosynthetic process; and positive regulation of glucose import. Predicted to act upstrea...
SOWAHC: ...
SPARCL1: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity; collagen binding activity; and extracellular matrix binding activity. Predicted...
SQOR: Enables sulfide:quinone oxidoreductase activity. Involved in hydrogen sulfide metabolic process and sulfide oxidation, using sulfi...
SSPN: Predicted to be involved in cell adhesion and mu...
STAT5A: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration and positive regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. Acts upstream of or within reelin-mediated signaling pathway....
STOM: Enables RNA polymerase binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including positive regulation by host of viral genome replication; positive regul...
SUCLG1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in suc...
SULT1A1: Enables 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate binding activity and sulfotransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate metabolic process; estrogen metabolic process; and ethanol catabolic process. Acts upstream of or within sulf...
TALDO1: Enables transaldolase activity. Predicted to be involved in pentose-phosphate shunt, non-oxidative br...
TANK: Enables deubiquitinase activator activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributes to cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular r...
TKT: Enables metal ion binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and transketolase activity. Involved ...
TOB1: Enables receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell population proliferat...
TST: Enables 5S rRNA binding activity. Involved in epithelial cell different...
UBC: Enables protease binding activity. Predicted to be involved in modification-dependent protein catab...
UBQLN1: Enables identical protein binding activity; kinase binding activity; and polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including macroautophagy; negative regulation of store-operated calc...
UCK1: Enables cytidine kinase activity and uridine kinase activity. Involved...
UCP2: Predicted to enable oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler activity. Involved in response to hypoxia. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in carotid artery dis...
UQCR10: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol t...
UQCR11: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity. Predicted to be involved in generation of p...
UQCRC1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in oxidative phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within mitochondrial electron ...
UQCRQ: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol to cytochrome c. Located in mitochon...
VEGFB: Enables chemoattractant activity and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of chemotaxis; positive r...
YWHAG: Enables identical protein binding activity; insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity; and protein kinase C binding activity. Involved in regulation of neuron differentiation and regulatio...
////
AARS1: Enables alanine-tRNA ligase activity and aminoacyl-tRNA editing activity.Involved in alany...
ABCE1: Enables endoribonuclease inhibitor activity. Involved in negative regulationof endoribonuclea...
ABI1: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and signaling adaptor activity.Acts upstream o...
ACHE: Enables several functions, including acetylcholine binding activity;acetylcholinesterase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin acetylcholine catabolic p...
ACVR2A: Enables coreceptor activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Contributes to activin binding activity and activin receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of ce...
AKT1: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity;anion binding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; intracellular signal transduction;and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstreamof...
APBB1: Enables several functions, including chromatin binding activity; proline-richregion binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activ...
B2M: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of celldifferentiation; and regulation of receptor bi...
BCAT1: Predicted to enable branched-chain-amino-acid transaminase activity.Predicted to be involved in leucine...
BCL10: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to kinaseactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including posit...
BCL3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcriptioncorepressor activity. Involved in several...
BRCA1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; nucleicacid binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA repair; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and protein ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within intrinsic apoptotics...
C2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in complement activation and positive regul...
CAPG: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including actin filament severing;...
CARTPT: Predicted to enable neuropeptide hormone activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative r...
CCL11: Enables CCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingeosinophil chemotaxis; positiv...
CCL13: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingantimicrobial humoral immune response med...
CCL19: Enables CCR10 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including establishment of T cell ...
CCL2: Predicted to enable CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokinestimulus; leukocyte chemotaxis; and regulation of apoptoti...
CCL22: Predicted to enable CCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antim...
CCL4: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity; CCR5 chemokine receptorbinding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation by host of viral transc...
CCL5: Enables several functions, including enzyme activator activity; phosphatidylinositolphospholipase C activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positiveregulation of cell migratio...
CCL7: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; positive regulationof natural killer cell ...
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulationof cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular com...
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase...
CCR1: Enables C-C chemokine binding activity; C-C chemokine receptor activity;and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regula...
CCR2: Enables CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of astrocyte chemotaxis and positive regulation of monocyte chemotaxis.Acts upstream of or within cytokine-mediated signal...
CCR5: Enables several functions, including C-C chemokine receptor activity;chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5 binding activity; and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to lipopolysaccharide;intracel...
CD1D: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity; exogenous lipid antigenbinding activity; and histone binding activity. Involved in antigen proc...
CD2: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including natural ...
CD247: Enables protein heterodimerization activity; protein homodimerizationactivity; and protein tyrosine kinase binding acti...
CD28: Enables protease binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cytokine production; positive regulation of mitoticnuclear division; and regulatory ...
CD3D: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell surface receptor si...
CD3E: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in negative regulation of gene expression; positive regu...
CD3G: Enables identical protein binding activity and transmembrane signalingreceptor activity. Involved in several processe...
CD4: Enables several functions, including interleukin-16 binding activity;interleukin-16 receptor activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, in...
CD40: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulation of intracellularsignal transduction; and regulation of DNA-templated transcri...
CD40LG: Enables CD40 receptor binding activity; integrin binding activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof cytokine product...
CD47: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity and thrombospondin receptoractivity. Involved in seve...
CD7: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin T c...
CD74: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;macrophage migration inhibitory factor binding activity; and signaling receptorbinding activity. ...
CD79A: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin B cell differentiation; B cell proliferation; an...
CD80: Predicted to enable coreceptor activity and virus receptor activity.Involved in positive regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. ...
CD86: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of T cell activation. Predictedto act upstream of o...
CD8A: Enables MHC class I protein complex binding activity. Involved in Tcell activation and T ...
CD8B: Predicted to enable MHC class I protein binding activity a...
CD96: Acts upstream of or within cell...
CDKN2A: Enables several functions, including MDM2/MDM4 family protein bindingactivity; NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme inhibitor activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of nucleobase-containing compoundmetabolic process; regulation of protein localization; and regulation of proteinmetabolic pro...
CFP: Predicted to be involved in defense response to bacterium and immuneresponse. L...
CRTAM: Enables identical protein binding activity and signaling receptor bindingactivity. Involved in se...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabo...
CSK: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein kinase A catalyticsubuni...
CTSS: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; fibronectinbinding activity; and laminin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including antigen...
CXCL13: Enables chemokine receptor binding activity; fibroblast growth factorbinding activity; a...
CXCL9: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including antimicrobial humoral immune responsemediated by antimicrobial peptide;...
CXCR3: Enables C-X-C chemokine binding activity and signaling receptor activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of release ofsequ...
DARS1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involve...
DEGS1: Enables retinol isomerase activity and sphingolipid delta-4 ...
DYRK3: Enables ATP binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and proteinserine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in severa...
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity;enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributesto nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulationof intracellular signal transduction; and r...
EIF3A: Enables RNA binding activity. Contributes to translation initiationfactor activity. Involved in IRES-dependent viral...
EIF3D: Enables mRNA cap binding activity. Contributes to translation initiationfactor activity. Involved in several proc...
EIF3J: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to ...
EIF4G3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulationof translational initiation. Predicted to act upstream of ...
EIF5A: Enables U6 snRNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to virus; positive r...
ELANE: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; proteasebinding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including defense response to Gram-negative bacterium; positiveregulation...
ELF4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulat...
EREG: Enables receptor ligand activity and transmembrane receptor proteintyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processe...
ETS1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; nuclear receptor coactivator activity;and ...
F2: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; lipopolysaccharidebinding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; defense response to other organism;and regulation of...
F2R: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and thrombin-activated receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including connective tissue repl...
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellsurface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolicprocess; and regulation of signal transduction. A...
FASLG: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including necroptotic signaling pathway; positive regulationof endothelial cell apoptotic process; and positive regulation of phosphatidylserineexposure on apoptotic cell surface. Acts upstream of or withi...
FCGR2B: Enables IgG binding activity; amyloid-beta binding activity; and low-affinityIgG receptor activity. Involved in endocytosis; negative regul...
FGR: Enables Fc-gamma receptor I complex binding activity; non-membrane spanningprotein tyrosine kinase activity; and phosphotyrosine ...
FLNA: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; protein localizationto...
FYB1: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; integrin-m...
GALNT1: Enables manganese ion binding activity and polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferaseac...
GBP2: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto cyto...
GCNT1: Predicted to enable beta-1,3-galactosyl-O-glycosyl-glycoprotein beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosami...
GLMN: Enables hepatocyte growth factor receptor binding activity; ubiquitinprotein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase inhibitoractivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofT cell proli...
GPR65: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity. Involved in several processes,...
GZMA: Enables protein homodimerization activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cytot...
GZMB: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including granzyme-mediated pro...
HCLS1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in...
HDAC9: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; enzyme binding activity; and histone H4K16 deacetylase activity....
HIF1A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andenzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin se...
HLA-A: Enables several functions, including TAP complex binding activity;beta-2-microglobulin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including antigen processing and presen...
HLA-DMA: Enables MHC class II protein complex binding activity. Involved inpeptide an...
HLA-DMB: Enables MHC class II protein complex binding activity. Involved inantigen processing and presentation of exogenous...
HLA-DOA: Enables MHC class II protein complex binding activity. Involved innegative r...
HLA-DOB: Enables MHC class II protein complex binding activity. Involved innegat...
HLA-DQA1: Predicted to enable MHC class II protein complex binding activityand peptide antigen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptideantigen via MHC class II; peptide ant...
HLA-DRA: Enables T cell receptor binding activity; peptide antigen bindingactivity; and polysaccharide binding activity. Involved in several processes,including antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigenvia MHC class II; a...
HLA-E: Enables beta-2-microglobulin binding activity; peptide antigen bindingactivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several proces...
HLA-G: Enables CD8 receptor binding activity; peptide antigen binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regul...
ICAM1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingT cell activation via T cell receptor contact with antigen bound to MHC moleculeon antigen presenting cell; cellular response to amyloid...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin T ...
IFNAR2: Enables protein kinase binding activity; type I interferon bindingactivity; and type I interferon receptor activity. Inv...
IFNG: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of cell death; positive regulation of cell development;and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstreamof or within seve...
IFNGR1: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including glial cell activation; negative regulationof amyloid-beta cl...
IFNGR2: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-me...
IGSF6: Predicted to enable transmembrane signaling receptor activity. ...
IKBKB: Enables several functions, including protein dimerization activity;scaffold protein binding activity; and transferrin receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cytokine-me...
IL10: Enables protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cellular catabolic process; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation...
IL11: Enables growth factor activity. Involved in positive regulation of cellpopulation proliferation. Acts upstream of or within s...
IL12A: Enables interleukin-12 beta subunit binding activity; interleukin-27binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes tocytokine activity and growth factor activity. Involved ...
IL12B: Enables identical protein binding activity; interleukin-12 alpha subunitbinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes tocytokine activity; growth factor activity; and interleukin-23 receptor bindingacti...
IL12RB1: Contributes to cytokine receptor activity; interleukin-12 receptorbinding activity; and interleukin-23 binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, incl...
IL13: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and interleukin-13 receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofcomplement-dependent cytotoxicity; negative regulation of endothelial cell...
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation;and posit...
IL16: Enables CD4 receptor binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cytokine production; positive regulation of inflammatory response; andregulation...
IL18: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-18 receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; positive regulation of intracellular sig...
IL18RAP: Enables interleukin-18 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-...
IL1B: Enables cytokine activity; integrin binding activity; and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of monooxygenaseactivity; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstrea...
IL2: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-2 receptor binding activity.Involved in leukocyte activation involved in immune response; positive regulationof interleukin-17 production; and positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylationof STAT protein. Acts upstream of or wit...
IL27RA: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity and interleukin-27 receptoractivity. Predicted to contribute to interleukin-12 receptor binding activityand i...
IL2RA: Contributes to interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in regulationof T cell tolerance induction. Predicted to be located in plasma membra...
IL2RB: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity; interleukin-2 binding activity;and interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signalingpathway; interle...
IL2RG: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediatedsignaling pathway and positi...
IL4: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cellular response to transforming growthfactor beta stimulus; negative regulation of complement-dependent cytotoxicity;and positive regulation of macromolecule metaboli...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within sever...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within sev...
IL7: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway;positive regulation of chemokine production; and pos...
IL9: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and interleukin-9 receptor bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of interleukin-5production. Predicted to act upstream of or withi...
INHBA: Enables identical protein binding activity; peptide hormone bindingactivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
INHBB: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including activin ...
IRF4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in p...
IRF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specificand RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific D...
IRF8: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific...
ITGAL: Enables ICAM-3 receptor activity and cell adhesion molecule bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including T cell activ...
ITGB2: Enables several functions, including ICAM-3 receptor activity; heatshock protein binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including...
ITK: Enables non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity. Predictedto be involved in several pr...
JAK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; hemebinding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation oflymphocyte proliferation; and protein modification process. Acts upstreamof or within positive regula...
KLRD1: Enables HLA-E specific inhibitory MHC class Ib receptor activity; MHCprotein complex binding activity; and protein...
KRT1: Enables carbohydrate binding activity and protein heterodimerizationactivity. A structural constituent of skin epidermis. Involved in complementactiv...
LCK: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in seve...
LCP2: Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation...
LIF: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and leukemia inhibitoryfactor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingleukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathwa...
LTB: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in positi...
LY75: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. P...
LY86: Acts upstream of or within positive regulation ...
LYN: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity;non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and scaffold prote...
MAP3K7: Enables several functions, including protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity; receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity; and scaffold proteinbinding activity. Involved i...
MAP4K1: Enables ATP binding activity and MAP kinase kinase kinase kinase activity.I...
MBL2: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; identical protein binding activity; and mannose binding activity.Involved in several processes, including antiviral innate immune response;cell surface pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway; and po...
MMP9: Enables identical protein binding activity; metalloendopeptidase activity;and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to UV-A; negative regulation of apoptotic sign...
MRPL3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in translati...
MTIF2: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involve...
NCF4: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate binding activity and superoxide-generatingNADPH oxidase activat...
NCK1: Enables several functions, including eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2binding activity; molecular condensate scaffold activity; and receptor tyrosinekinase bindin...
NCR1: Predicted to be involved in cellular defense response; regulation ofnatural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity; and signal transduction. Predictedto act ...
NLRP3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including NLRP3 inflammasome complex assembly; negative regulat...
NME1: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity; and purine ribonucleoside triphosphatebinding activity...
NOS2: Enables nitric-oxide synthase activity. Involved in several processes,including nitric oxide biosynthetic process; prostaglandin secretion; andregulation of gene expressi...
NPM1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-bindingtranscription factor binding activity; nucleic acid binding activity; andribosome binding acti...
PF4: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and heparin bindingactivity. Involved i...
PRF1: Enables identical protein binding activity and wide pore channel activity.Involved in immunological synapse formation; positive regulation of killingof cells of another organism; and protein homooligomerizat...
PRKCB: Enables several functions, including nuclear androgen receptor bindingactivity; nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and protein kinase activity.In...
PRKCG: Enables protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Involvedin negative regulation of protein metabolic process; phosphorylation; andpositive regulati...
PSMB10: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin proteasomal protein catabolic process. Predicted to a...
PTPN6: Enables several functions, including phosphorylation-dependent proteinbinding activity; phosphotyrosine residue binding activity; and transmembranereceptor protein tyros...
PTPRC: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; protein kinase bindingactivity; and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in several proc...
RARS1: Enables arginine-tRNA ligase activity. Involved in arginyl-tRNA aminoacylat...
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; proteindomain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several process...
RPL39: A structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in cytoplasmic translationan...
RPL3L: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Predicted to be a structuralconstituent of ribos...
RPL9: A structural constituent of ribosome. Predicted to be...
RPS19: Enables fibroblast growth factor binding activity; identical proteinbinding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. A structural constituentof ribosome. Involved in severa...
RPS3A: Enables mRNA 5''-UTR binding activity. A structural constituent ofribosome. Involved...
RPS9: Enables translation regulator activity. A structural constituent ofribosome. In...
SIT1: Enables kinase binding activity. I...
SOCS1: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in macrophage differentiation; negativeregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein; and positive r...
SOCS5: Enables receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of epidermal growth fa...
SPI1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity; DNA-binding transcription repressor activity; and STAT family proteinbinding activity. In...
SRGN: Involved in granzyme-mediated programmed cell death sig...
ST8SIA4: Enables alpha-N-acetylneuraminate alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase activity.Inv...
STAB1: Enables low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particl...
STAT1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II transcriptionregulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; enzyme binding activity;and transcription coregulator binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to cytokine...
STAT4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; and response to peptide hormone. Predictedto act...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporteractivity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation of end...
TAP2: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporteractivity; ATP binding activity; and TAP1 binding activity. Contributes topeptide transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes,including antigen processing and pr...
TAPBP: Enables TAP complex binding activity; TAP1 binding activity; and TAP2binding activity. Involved in MHC protein complex ass...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction....
TGFB2: Enables amyloid-beta binding activity; protein homodimerization activity;and transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cell s...
THY1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathwa...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ce...
TLR1: Enables Toll-like receptor 2 binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in cell activation; positive regulation of innateimmune response; and positive regulation of interleukin-8 prod...
TLR2: Enables several functions, including lipopolysaccharide binding activity;peptide binding activity; and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; positiveregulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of defense response.Acts upstream of or within posi...
TLR3: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including I-kappaB phosphorylation;positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of signaltran...
TLR6: Enables Toll-like receptor 2 binding activity; identical protein bindingactivity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to amyloid-b...
TNF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protease binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolicprocess; positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positiveregulation of macro...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimeri...
TRAF2: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; tumornecrosis factor binding activity; and tumor necrosis factor receptor bindingactivity. Involved in ...
TRAT1: Predicted to enable transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinaseadaptor activity. Acts upstream of or within...
UBE2D1: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin proteinligase activity. Involved...
UBE2N: Enables ubiquitin binding activity; ubiquitin protein ligase bindingactivity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity....
WARS1: Enables several functions, including kinase inhibitor activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and tryptophan-tRNA ligase activity. In...
WAS: Enables SH3 domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Cdc42 proteinsignal tr...
ZAP70: Enables non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity andphosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in immune response andprotein phospho...
////
ACTA1: Predicted to enable ADP binding activity; ATP binding activity; andmyosin binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton.Involv...
ACTB: Enables several functions, including Tat protein binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and kinesin binding activity. A structural constituent ofpostsynaptic actin cytoskeleton. Contributes to nucleosomal DNA binding activity.Involved in several processes, inclu...
ACTC1: Enables ATP binding activity; microfilament motor activity; and myosinbinding activity. Involved in actin-myosin filament sliding an...
ACTG1: Enables identical protein binding activity; profilin binding activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including protein localization to bicellular tight junction; regula...
ACTG2: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity and hydrolase activity. Predictedto be involved in mesenchyme migration and...
ACTN1: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and protein homodimerization activity.A structural constituent of postsynapse. Involved ...
ACTN2: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity; and titin Z domainbinding activity. Involved in several processes, includ...
ACTN3: Enables identical protein binding activity and transmembrane tr...
ACTN4: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; nuclearreceptor coactivator activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including intracellular receptor signaling pathway;negative regul...
ADAM15: Enables SH3 domain binding activity; integrin binding activity; andmetallopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularr...
ADAM23: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity and metallopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in central nervous system development....
ADAM9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; integrinbinding activity; and metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursorprotein catabolic process. Involved in several processes, including cell-celladhesion mediated b...
ADAMTS5: Enables identical protein binding activity and metalloendopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in extracellular matrix disassembly; myoblastfusion; and negative regulation of cold-induced therm...
ADRA1B: Enables protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in positi...
AKT2: Enables ATP binding activity; molecular function activator activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential; positiveregulation of small ...
AKT3: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cellular senescence;positive regulation of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis;...
ALOX15B: Enables metal ion binding activity and oxidoreductase activity, actingon single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen, incorporation oftwo atoms of oxygen. Involved in several processes, inc...
AMH: Enables type II transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity.Involved in Mullerian duct regression; pathway-restricted SMAD protein phosphorylation;and positive r...
AMIGO1: Predicted to enable potassium channel regulator activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including heterophilic cell-cell adhesionvia plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules; homophilic cell adhesion viap...
AMIGO2: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including heterophiliccell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules; homophiliccell adhesion via plasma membrane adhesion...
ARHGEF6: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Predictedto be involved in lamellipodium assembly. Predicted ...
ARPC2: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filamentbinding activity. Involved in Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation andposi...
ATP1A3: Enables active transmembrane transporter activity; amyloid-beta bindingactivity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in intracellularmonoatomic cation homeostasis; monoatomic cation transmembrane transport;and...
B4GALT1: Enables several functions, including UDP-galactosyltransferase activity;manganese ion binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved inoligosaccharide biosynthetic process...
BAIAP2: Enables identical protein binding activity and proline-rich regionbinding activity. Involved in regulation of actin cytoskeleton organizationand response to bact...
BMP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and peptidase activity. Involvedin proteolysis. Acts upstream of or within positi...
CADM2: Predicted to be involved in brain development and homophilic cell adhesionvia plasma membrane adhesion molecules. Predicted to be located in plasmamembrane...
CADM3: Predicted to enable protein homodimerization activity. Predicted tobe involved in heterophilic cell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesionmolecules and homophilic cell adhesion via ...
CALB2: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulati...
CAP1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and adenylate cyclase bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in cAMP-mediated signaling; cell morphogenesis;and regulation of...
CD209: Enables virus receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includingB cell adhesion; positive regulation of T cell proliferation; and positiveregulation of viral life cycle. Acts upstream of or within regulation of Tce...
CD274: Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of activatedCD8-positive, alpha-beta T cell apoptotic process; regulation of T cell activation;and regulation of cytokine production. Located in severa...
CD276: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in T cell activation; positi...
CD34: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and carbohydrate binding activity. Involved in several processes,including blood ...
CD86: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of T cell activation. Predictedto act upstream of or within defense response to virus and toll-like receptorsignal...
CD99: Predicted to be involved in T cell extravasation; homotypic cell-celladhesion; and positive re...
CDH1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activating protein bindingactivity; ankyrin binding activity; and beta-catenin binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to indole-3-methanol; cellularresponse to lithium ion; and positive regulation of protein import into nucleus.Located in several cellular components, including adhe...
CDH11: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Involved in focal adhesion a...
CDH15: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in cell-cell...
CDH3: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation oftiming of catagen; positive regu...
CDH4: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in homophilic cell adhesion via plasmamembrane ...
CDH6: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesionvia pl...
CDH8: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including calcium-dependentcell-cell adh...
CDK8: Enables protein kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in proteinp...
CDSN: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid fibril formation; corneocyte desquamation; and negativere...
CERCAM: Enables identical protein binding activity. Acts upstream...
CLDN11: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in tight junctionassembly. Located in ...
CLDN14: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predictedto be involved in bicellular tight junction assembly and calcium-...
CLDN15: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predictedto be involved in bicellular tight junction assembly and calcium-independentc...
CLDN18: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predictedto be involved in bicellular tight junction assembly and calcium-independentcell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell-adhesion molecules. Predictedt...
CLDN19: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including actin cytoskeleton reorganization; positive regulationof macromol...
CLDN4: Predicted to enable chloride channel activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including establishment ofskin barrier; positive regula...
CLDN5: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including establishment of blood-retinal barrier; positiveregulati...
CLDN6: Enables virus receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in bicellulartight junction assembly and calcium-indepen...
CLDN7: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in bicellular ...
CLDN8: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in bicellular tight junct...
CLDN9: Enables virus receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in bicellulartight junction assembly and calcium-independent cell-cell adhesion via plasmamembrane cell-...
CNN2: Enables cadherin binding activity. Acts upstream of or within cellular...
CNTN1: Predicted to enable cell-cell adhesion mediator activity. Predictedto be involved in axon guidance; brain development; and cell-cell adhesion.Predicted to act upstream of o...
COL16A1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in cell adhesion mediatedby integrin; in...
COL17A1: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in hemid...
COL9A1: Enables carbohydrate binding activity. Predicted to be involved inextracellular matrix organization. Predicted to act upstream of or withincho...
CRAT: Enables acyl-CoA oxidase activity and carnitine O-acetyltransferaseactivity. Involved in carnitine metaboli...
CRB3: Enables SH3 domain binding activity. Involved i...
CTNNA1: Enables several functions, including beta-catenin binding activity;gamma-catenin binding activity; and vinculin binding activity. Involved incellular response to indole-3-methanol. Located in cell-cell ju...
CTNND1: Enables cadherin binding activity and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cell-cell adhesion mediated by cadherin;negative regulation of ca...
CX3CL1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including regulation of cell migration; regulation of gene expression; andregulation of signal transduction...
DHX16: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in mRNA splicing...
DLG1: Enables several functions, including L27 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; negative re...
DMP1: Predicted to enable extracellular matrix binding activity. Predictedto be involved in extracellular matrix organization. Predicted to act upstreamof or ...
DSC1: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Pre...
DSC3: Enables gamma-catenin binding activity. Involved ...
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity;enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributesto nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulationof intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of protein metabolicprocess. Acts upstream of or within epidermal growth facto...
EPB41L2: Predicted to enable PH domain binding activity; cytoskeletal proteinbinding activity; and structural molecule activity. Involved i...
EVL: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity and profilin bindingactivity. Involved in negative re...
EXOC4: Enables small GTPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved inseveral processes, including Golgi to plasma memb...
FBN1: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. An extracellularmatrix structural constituent. Involved in several processes, including activationof protein kinase A activi...
FLNC: Enables ankyrin binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in sarcomere organi...
FSCN1: Enables actin filament binding activity. Involved in several processes,including microspike assembly; positive regulation of cellular component organization;and regulation of...
FYB1: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; integrin-mediated signalingpathway; and p...
GAMT: Enables guanidinoacetate N-methyltransferase activity. Involved in creatinebiosynthetic process. Predicted to be...
GNAI1: Enables GTP binding activity. Involved in cell division; positive regulationof protein localization to...
GNAI2: Predicted to enable several functions, including G-protein beta/gamma-subunitcomplex binding activity; GTP binding activity; and ...
GRB7: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphatidylinositol bindingactivity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cell mi...
GTF2F1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; phosphatase activator activity; and promoter-specificchromatin binding activity...
HADH: Enables 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; NAD+ binding activity;and identical protein bindin...
HRAS: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of MAPK cascade;regulation of GTPase activity; and regulation of protein localization to membrane.Located in several cellular compo...
ICAM1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingT cell activation via T cell receptor contact with antigen bound to MHC moleculeon antigen presenting cell; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and regulationof apoptotic process. Located in...
ICAM2: Enables integrin binding activity. Predicte...
ICAM4: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell...
ICAM5: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell adhesion. Predicted to act up...
IKBKG: Enables several functions, including K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependentprotein binding activity; linear polyubiquitin binding activity; and proteindimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including establishmentof vesicle localization; positive regulation of T cell recept...
INPPL1: Enables SH2 domain binding activity. Involved in actin filament organization;endochondral os...
INSIG1: Enables oxysterol binding activity. Involved in several processes,including SREBP signaling pathway; SREBP-SCAP ...
IRS1: Enables several functions, including phosphotyrosine residue bindingactivity; signaling receptor binding activity; and signaling receptor complexadaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylinos...
ITGA10: Enables collagen binding activity involved in cell-matrix adhesion.Involv...
ITGA2: Enables collagen binding activity involved in cell-matrix adhesionand collagen receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including celladhesion mediated by integrin; cell surface receptor signaling pathway; andmesodermal cell differenti...
ITGA3: Enables protease binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of protein localizationto plasma memb...
ITGA9: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Acts upstream of orwithin cell adhesion. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted...
ITGB1: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity involvedin cell-matrix adhesion; enzyme binding activity; and fibronectin bindingactivity. Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; cell-cell adhesionmediated b...
ITGB4: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Contributes toinsulin-like growth factor I binding activity and neuregulin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including hemides...
JAM3: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including apical protein localization; hematopoieticstem cell migration to bone marrow; and negative regulation of integrin activation.Acts upst...
JUP: Enables several functions, including alpha-catenin binding activity;cadherin binding activity; and cytoskeletal protein-membrane anchor activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to indole-3-methanol;desmosome assembly; and regulation of heart contraction. Located in severalcellular c...
KCNH2: Enables several functions, including C3HC4-type RING finger domainbinding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and voltage-gated potassiumchannel activity. Involved in several processes, including membrane repolarizationduring ventricular cardiac muscle cell a...
KRT31: Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Predictedto be invo...
LAMA3: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be an extracellularmatrix structural constituent...
LAMB3: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involvedin endodermal cell differentiation. Part of collagen-co...
LAMC2: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inpositive regulation of cell migration and positive regulation of cell populationp...
LAYN: Enables hyaluronic acid bin...
LDLRAP1: Enables several functions, including AP-1 adaptor complex bindingactivity; AP-2 adaptor complex binding activity; and amyloid-beta bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cho...
LIMA1: Enables actin filament binding activity and actin monomer binding activity.Involved in actin filament bundle assembly; neg...
MADCAM1: Enables integrin binding activity involved in cell-matrix adhesion.Involved in several processes, i...
MAP3K20: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; JUN kinasekinase kinase activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular ...
MAP4K2: Enables ATP binding activity; mitogen-activated protein kinase kinasekinase binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activ...
MAPK11: Enables MAP kinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to UV-B; cellular respo...
MAPK13: Enables MAP kinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to anisomycin; cel...
MAPK14: Enables MAP kinase activity; mitogen-activated protein kinase p38binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to radiation; intracel...
MDK: Enables heparan sulfate binding activity and heparin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of apoptoticp...
MMP2: Enables metallopeptidase activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; endodermalcell differentiation; and positive regulation of vascular associated smoothmuscle cell proliferation. Located ...
MMP9: Enables identical protein binding activity; metalloendopeptidase activity;and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to UV-A; negative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway;and positive regulation of keratinocyte ...
MPZL1: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell-cell signaling and transmembrane re...
MPZL2: Predicted to be involved in cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to act upstreamof or within T cell differentiatio...
MSN: Enables several functions, including cell adhesion molecule binding activity;double-stranded RNA binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular res...
MVD: Enables Hsp70 protein binding activity; diphosphomevalonate decarboxylaseactivity; and protein homodimerizatio...
MYH10: Enables several functions, including RNA binding activity; actin filamentbinding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved inactomyosin structure organization and...
MYH9: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto actin filament binding activity and microfilament motor activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; myeloid celldifferentiation; and negative regul...
MYL12B: Predicted to enable myosin heavy chain binding activity. Pr...
MYL9: Predicted to enable myosin heavy chain binding activity. Involved inplatelet aggregation. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted t...
NECTIN1: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingheterophilic cell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules;homophilic cell adhesion via plasma ...
NECTIN2: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including coreceptor-mediated virionattachment...
NECTIN3: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in establishment of protein localizationto plasma membrane; heterophilic cell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane celladhesion molecules; and homophilic cell adhesion via pla...
NECTIN4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin heterophilic cell-cell adhesion via ...
NEGR1: Predicted to be involved in brain development; cell adhesion; and regulationof synapse assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or withi...
NEXN: Enables actin filament binding activity. A structural constituent ofmuscle. Involved in regulation of cell migration ...
NF1: Enables GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylcholine binding activity;and phosphatidylethanolamine binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of GTPase activity; regulation of angiogenesis;and regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration. Acts upstream ofor within negative regulat...
NF2: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including Schwann cell proliferation; positive regulation of stress fiberassembly; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in several cellularcomponents, incl...
NFASC: Predicted to enable protein binding activity involved in heterotypiccell-cell adhesion. Predicted to be involved in cell-cell adhesion and nervo...
NLGN2: Predicted to enable cell adhesion molecule binding activity; neurexinfamily protein binding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Involvedin positive regulation of insulin secretion. Acts upstrea...
NLGN3: Enables molecular adaptor activity and scaffold protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, includ...
NRAP: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and muscle alpha-actininbinding activity. Predicted to ...
NRTN: Predicted to enable growth factor activity. Acts upstream of or withinneural crest cell m...
NRXN2: Predicted to enable several functions, including calcium channel regulatoractivity; cell adhesion molecule binding activity; and neuroligin family proteinbinding activit...
PALS1: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein domain specificbinding activity. ...
PARD6G: Predicted to enable protein kinase C binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in centrosome cycle; establishment or maintenance o...
PARVA: Enables protein kinase inhibitor activity. Involved in cilium assemblyan...
PBX2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor binding activi...
PCDH1: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted...
NHERF4: Enables guanylate cyclase inhibitor activity and ubiquitin-specificprotease binding activity...
PECAM1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including bicellular tight junction assembly; cellular extravasation; andendothelium development. Located in cell-cell junction; extracellular space;and pl...
PFN1: Enables several functions, including actin monomer binding activity;adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity. Involved...
PIK3CB: Enables phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase activity andprotein serine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylinositol3-kinase signaling; positive regulation of neutrophil apoptotic process; andregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of o...
PIK3R3: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in cellmigration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; positive regulation of macromolecule...
PKD1: Enables several functions, including Wnt receptor activity; proteinkinase binding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Contributesto calcium channel activity. Involved in several processes, including kidneydevelopment; nervous system development; and positiv...
PLCG1: Enables neurotrophin TRKA receptor binding activity; phosphatidylinositolphospholipase C activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cellular response to epidermal growth factorstimulus; positive regulation of endothelial cell ap...
PPP2R2C: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase regulator activity. Predictedto be involved in p...
PTEN: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; anaphase-promotingcomplex binding activity; and phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes,including dephosphorylation; negative regulation of cell migration; and regulationof protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulationof protein kinase B signaling. Located in se...
PTK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway;protein phosphorylation; ...
PTPRC: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; protein kinase bindingactivity; and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation ...
RAC2: Enables GTP binding activity. Involved in several processes, includinglymphocyte aggregation; positive regulation of lamellipodium assembly; andpositive regulation of neutrophil chemotaxis. Located in cytosol ...
RASA1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; GTPasebinding activity; and phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved inseveral processe...
RHOF: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and protei...
RRAS: Enables GDP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including face morphogenesis; positiv...
RSU1: Involved in positive regulation of GTPase activity a...
SDC3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell mig...
SGCE: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell-matrix adhesion a...
SHC1: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive ...
SHROOM2: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity; beta-cateninbinding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including apical protein loc...
SIRPA: Enables cell-cell adhesion mediator activity and protein antigen bindingactivity. Involved in cellular re...
SKAP2: Predicted to be involved in protein-containing complex assembly andsignal transduction. Predict...
SLC30A3: Predicted to enable zinc ion transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in regu...
SLIT2: Enables several functions, including GTPase inhibitor activity; Roundaboutbinding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in sever...
SORBS3: Enables vinculin binding activity. Involved in posi...
SPEG: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Predicted to be involvedin muscle cell differentiation. Predicted to act upstream o...
SRC: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof phosphate metabolic process; and regulation of signal t...
STX4: Enables sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, including cornified envelope assembly; positive regulationof immune effector pro...
SYK: Enables several functions, including phospholipase binding activity;protein kinase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including neutrophil chemotaxis; positive regulati...
SYMPK: Involved in mRNA polyadenylation; negative regulation of protein bindingact...
TAOK2: Enables mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase binding activity; neuropilinbinding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved ...
TGFBI: Enables collagen binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in angiogenesis and localizat...
THBS3: Enables heparin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in celladhesion. Predicted to act upstream of or ...
THY1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathway; positive regulati...
TIAL1: Enables mRNA 3''-UTR binding activity; mRNA base-pairing translationalrepressor activity; and protein-RNA adaptor activity. Involved in negative...
TJP1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingestablishment of endothelial intestinal barrier; negative regulation of actincytoskeleton reorganization; and protein localization to cell-cell junction.Acts u...
TMEM8B: Involved in cell-matrix adhesio...
TNFRSF11B: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and signaling receptor activity.Predicted to be involved in signal transduction and skeletal system development.Predicted to act upstream of or within extracellular matrix organization andnegative regulation o...
TRAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and tumor necrosis factor receptor binding activity. Involved in positiver...
TRO: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNApolymerase II. Predicte...
TSC1: Enables ATPase inhibitor activity; Hsp70 protein binding activity; andHsp90 protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activationof GTPase activity; positive regulation of focal adhesion assembly; and regulationof protein metabolic proce...
TSPAN4: Enables antigen binding activity and integrin binding activity...
TUBG1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule cytoskeleton organization and mitotic sister chromat...
VASP: Enables profilin binding activity. Involved in positive regulati...
VAV2: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and phosphotyrosineresidue binding activity. I...
VCAM1: Enables integrin binding activity and primary amine oxidase activity.Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling usingintracellular calcium source; cell-cell adhesion in response to extracellularstimulus; and cellular response to amyloid-beta. Located in...
VCAN: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase binding activity. Predictedto be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferrin...
VCL: Enables several functions, including alpha-catenin binding activity;dystroglycan binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cell-cell junction assembly; proteinlocalization...
VWF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity.Involved in cell-substrate adhesion; platelet activation; and positive regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Located in several cellular components,...
WASL: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including actin ...
WNK4: Enables chloride channel inhibitor activity. Involved in distal tubulemorphogenesis; monoatomic ion homeostasis; and renal sodium ion absorption.Pred...
YWHAH: Enables several functions, including nuclear glucocorticoid receptorbinding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and transmembrane transporterbi...
ZYX: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathway; stress fiber assembly; and tra...
////
ACTN2: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity; and titin Z domainbinding activ...
ADAM9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; integrinbinding activity; and metalloendopeptidase activity involved in amyloid precursorprotein catabolic process. Involved in several...
ADRA2B: Enables alpha2-adrenergic receptor activity and epinephrine bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including activation of protein...
AKAP10: Enables protein kinase A binding activity. Predicted to...
ANG: Enables several functions, including actin binding activity; heparinbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of protein kinase B activity; defense responseto other organism; and positive regula...
ANXA5: Enables calcium-dependent phospholipid binding activity. Predictedto be involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process and signal transduction.Predicted to act upstream of or within response to organ...
APOA4: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; cholesteroltransfer activity; and phosphatidylcholine-sterol O-acyltransferase activatoractivity. Involved in several processes, including lipid transport; positiveregulation of li...
APOBEC3F: Enables several functions, including cytidine deaminase activity;identical protein binding activity; and zinc ion binding activit...
APOBEC3G: Enables several functions, including deoxycytidine deaminase activity;identical protein binding activit...
APOC1: Enables fatty acid binding activity and phospholipase inhibitor activity.Involved in several processes, including lipid transport; negative regulationof lipid meta...
ATOX1: Enables copper chaperone activity; copper-dependent protein bindingactivity; and cuprous...
BRPF3: Contributes to histone acetyltransferase activity. Involved ...
C1QA: Predicted to enable amyloid-beta binding activity. Involved in complementac...
C1QC: Involved in complement activation, classical pathway; negative regu...
C1R: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity; identicalprotein b...
C1S: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted...
C2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in complement activation and positive regul...
C3: Enables C5L2 anaphylatoxin chemotactic receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including opsonization; positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; and positive regulation of phagocytosis. L...
C4BPB: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of complement...
C9: Involved in cell killing and protein homooligomerization. Located in extracellularspace and pl...
CA2: Enables arylesterase activity; carbonate dehydratase activity; and zincion binding activity. Involved in angiotensin-activ...
CALM1: Enables several functions, including calcium channel inhibitor activity;enzyme activator activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of hydrolas...
CALM3: Enables several functions, including calcium channel inhibitor activity;enzyme activator activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive reg...
CASP1: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolec...
CASP10: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway; death effector domain binding activity; and ubiqu...
CASP3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto staurosporine; erythrocyte differenti...
CASP4: Enables CARD domain binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell...
CASP5: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved ...
CASP7: Enables RNA binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in execution phase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including...
CASP9: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV; i...
CBLB: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity; receptor tyrosine kinasebinding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involvedin negative regulation of epidermal growth factor-activated receptor activity;regulation of p...
CCL5: Enables several functions, including enzyme activator activity; phosphatidylinositolphospholipase C activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positiveregulation of cell migratio...
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoproteinparticle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-betaclearance by cellular catabolic pro...
CD40LG: Enables CD40 receptor binding activity; integrin binding activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof cytokine product...
CD46: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of T cell activation; regulation of gene expression; andregulation of signal transduction. Located...
CD55: Enables lipid binding activity and virus receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-betaT cell proliferation; positive regulation of T c...
CD59: Predicted to enable complement binding activity. Acts upstream of orwithin regulation of complement activation and regu...
CDA: Enables several functions, including cytidine deaminase activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and zinc ion b...
CDH13: Enables cadherin binding activity and low-density lipoprotein particlebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including Ras protein signaltransduction; positive regula...
CDK5R1: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activator activity. Involved in positive regulation of sig...
CEBPB: Enables RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription fromRNA polymerase II promoter in respons...
CFB: Predicted to enable complement binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in complement activation and response tobacterium. Predicted to act upstream of or within com...
CFH: Enables heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity; heparin bindingactivity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in complement activation;proteolysis; and regulation of complement activation, alternative path...
CLU: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and misfolded protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcellular component organization; regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling...
COL4A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in endodermal cell diff...
CP: Enables protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin iron ion transp...
CPM: Predicted to enable metallocarboxypeptidase activity. Predi...
CPQ: Enables metallodipeptidase activity and protein homodimeriz...
CR1: Enables complement receptor activity and opsonin binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including activation of immune response; regulationof complem...
CR2: Enables DNA binding activity; complement binding activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in B cell differentiation; B cell ...
CSRP1: Enables RNA binding activit...
CTSB: Enables collagen binding activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activity;and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to thyroid hormone stimulus; collagen catabolic proc...
CTSC: Enables cysteine-type peptidase activity. Involved in pro...
CTSD: Enables peptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includinglipoprotein catabolic process; positive regulation of apoptotic process; andpositive regu...
CTSH: Enables several functions, including HLA-A specific activating MHC classI receptor activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involvedin apoptotic process; and peptidase activity...
CTSL: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; fibronectinbinding activity; and serpin family protein binding activity. Involved inseveral process...
CTSO: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predic...
CTSS: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; fibronectinbinding activity; and laminin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including antigen...
CTSV: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predictedto be involved in immune ...
CXCL1: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicr...
DGKG: Enables diacylglycerol kinase activity and lipid binding activity. In...
DGKH: Enables several functions, including SAM domain binding activity; diacylglycerolkinase activity; and identical protein bindi...
DOCK10: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor act...
DOCK4: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and guanyl-nucleotideexchange factor activity. Involved in c...
DOCK9: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predi...
DPP4: Enables several functions, including chemorepellent activity; peptidaseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regul...
DUSP5: Enables protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involvedin pep...
DUSP6: Enables MAP kinase tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity.Involved in several processes, including negative r...
DYRK2: Enables ATP binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and proteinkinase activity. Involved in several processes, including int...
EHD1: Enables identical protein binding activity and small GTPase bindingactivity. Involved in several...
ERAP2: Enables aminopeptidase activity; endopeptidase activity; and metallopeptidaseactivi...
F10: Enables phospholipid binding activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involve...
F2: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; lipopolysaccharidebinding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; defense response to other organism;and regulation of...
F3: Enables phospholipid binding activity and protease binding activity. Contributesto serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingactivation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process;activation of plasma proteins involved in acute infla...
F5: Predicted to enable copper ion binding activity. Involved in zymogen activation.Located in extracellular vesicle and membrane. Impli...
F7: Contributes to serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including blood coagulation; positive regulation of chemotaxis;and positive regulation of signal transduction. Located in m...
F8: Predicted to enable copper ion binding activity and oxidoreductase activity.Invo...
FCER1G: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in Fc...
FCN1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity; pattern recognitionreceptor activity; and sialic acid binding activity. In...
FDX1: Enables 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity and elect...
FN1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; identical protein binding activity; and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including integrin activation; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of intra...
FYN: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and signalingreceptor bi...
GATA3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and HMG boxdomain binding activity. Involved in several processes, including c...
GCA: Enables calcium ion binding activity; protein heterodimerization...
GMFB: Predicted to enable Arp2/3 complex binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in ...
GNAI2: Predicted to enable several functions, including G-protein beta/gamma-subunitcomplex binding activity; ...
GNAI3: Enables GDP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including GTP metabolic process; d...
GNB2: Enables GTPase binding activity. Involved in regulat...
GNB4: Predicted to enable signaling receptor complex adaptor activity. Involvedi...
GNG2: Enables G-protein beta-subunit binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including adenylate cyclas...
GNGT2: Enables GTPase activity. Predicted to be invo...
GP1BA: Predicted to enable thrombin-activated receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; fibrinolysis;and positive regulation of platelet activation. Acts upstream of...
GP9: Involved in blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; positive regulationof p...
GPD2: Enables glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (quinone) activity. Predictedto be involved in glyceropho...
GRB2: Enables several functions, including SH3 domain binding activity; insulinreceptor substrate binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular r...
GZMA: Enables protein homodimerization activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cytot...
GZMB: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including granzyme-mediated pro...
GZMK: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity....
HNF4A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity; fatty acid binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including blood coagulation; orn...
HPCAL4: Predicted to enable calcium ion bindi...
HSPA1A: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including regulation of RNA metabolic process; regulationof microtubule cytoskeleton organizatio...
HSPA5: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to glucose starvation; positive ...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within sev...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding ac...
IRF2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II tran...
IRF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specificand RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific D...
ITGAM: Enables heat shock protein binding activity. Involved in ectodermalcell differentiation; positiv...
ITIH1: Enables carbohydrate binding activity and hyaluronic acid binding activity.Predicted to be involved in hyaluronan meta...
JAK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; hemebinding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation oflymphocyte proliferation; and protein modification process. Acts upstreamof or within positive regula...
KCNIP2: Enables identical protein binding activity; potassium channel regulatoractivity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Contributes to A-type(tr...
KCNIP3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequ...
KIF2A: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindle assemblyand regulation of cell migration. Locat...
KLK1: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted tobe involved in regulation o...
KLKB1: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved inblood coagulation, intrinsic pathwa...
KYNU: Enables 3-hydroxykynureninase activity; kynureninase activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in se...
L3MBTL4: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity and histone bin...
LAMP2: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofprotein-containing complex assembly; protein catabolic process; and r...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. P...
LCK: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in seve...
LCP2: Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation...
LGALS3: Enables several functions, including IgE binding activity; chemoattractantactivity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including leukocyte chemota...
LGMN: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response...
LIPA: Enables sterol esterase activity. Predicted to be involved in sterolmetabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within severa...
LRP1: Enables alpha-2 macroglobulin receptor activity; apolipoprotein bindingactivity; and clathrin heavy chain binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
LTA4H: Enables ether hydrolase activity; metalloaminopeptidase activity; andzinc io...
LTF: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; heparin binding activity; and lipopolysaccharide binding activity.Involved in several processes, including def...
LYN: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity;non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and scaffold prote...
MAFF: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-speci...
ME1: Enables several functions, including malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating)(NADP+) activity; metal ion bin...
MMP12: Enables several functions, including core promoter sequence-specificDNA binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and metalloendopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including elastin catabolic pr...
MMP13: Enables collagen binding activity; metal ion binding activity; andmetalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in bone morphogenesis; collagen catabolicprocess; an...
MMP14: Enables endopeptidase activity and metalloaminopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including endodermal cell differentiation;regulation of protein localization to plasma membran...
MMP15: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in en...
MMP8: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in endodermal celldifferentiation and proteolysis. Lo...
MSRB1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity; oxidoreductase activity,acting on a sulfur group...
MT3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptoticprocess; protein kinase activator activity; and transition metal ion bindingactivity. Involved ...
NOTCH4: Predicted to enable Notch binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cell adhesion molecule production; negativeregulatio...
OLR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including leukocyte cell-cell adhesion; lipoproteinmetabo...
PCLO: Predicted to enable several functions, including calcium-dependent phospholipidbinding activity; profilin binding activity; and transcription corepressorbinding activity. Predicted to be a s...
PCSK9: Enables several functions, including lipoprotein particle receptorbinding activity; serine-type endopeptidase activity; and sodium channel inhibitoractivity. Involved in several proce...
PDGFB: Enables several functions, including platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; protein dimerization activity; and receptor ligand activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration;positive regulation of cell popula...
PDP1: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in peptidyl-threoni...
PFN1: Enables several functions, including actin monomer binding activity;adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bis...
PHEX: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in proteolysis.Predicted to be located in s...
PIK3CA: Enables 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of anoikis; phosphatidylinositol3-kinase signaling; and positive re...
PIK3CG: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity;phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity; and protein serine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylin...
PIK3R5: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activityand G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity. Predict...
PIM1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; manganeseion binding activity; and ribosomal small subunit binding activit...
PLA2G4A: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity;phospholipase activity; and phos...
PLA2G7: Enables 1-alkyl-2-acetylglycerophosphocholine esterase activity; calcium-independentphospholipase A2 activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including glycerophospholipid catabolic process; plasmalipoprotein part...
PLAT: Enables phosphoprotein binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofproteolysis and plasminogen activation. Located in cell surf...
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regu...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase ...
PLG: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;protein antigen binding activity; and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including extracellular matrix dis...
PLSCR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; metal ion binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding ...
PPP2CB: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity.Involved in negative regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activit...
PPP4C: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved inregulation of...
PRCP: Predicted to enable dipeptidyl-peptidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including angiogenesis involved in wound healing; negativeregula...
PRDM4: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto be involved in regulation of gene exp...
PREP: Predicted to enable oligopeptidase...
PRKCD: Enables enzyme activator activity; protein kinase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to oxida...
PRSS3: Enables calcium ion binding activity and serine-type end...
PRSS36: Enables serine-type endopeptidase ...
PSEN1: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; PDZ domainbinding activity; and aspartic endopeptidase activity, intramembrane cleaving.Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; pr...
PSMB9: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in regulationof cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Located in cytos...
RABIF: Enables zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to ...
RAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including activation of adenylate cyclase activity; p...
RASGRP1: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; diacylglycerolbinding activity; and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor ac...
RBSN: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and small GTPase bindingactivity....
RCE1: Enables endopeptidase activity and exopeptidase activi...
RHOG: Enables GTPase activity. Involved in activation of GTPase activity;cell chemotaxis; and positive regulation of pro...
RNF4: Enables SUMO polymer binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several pr...
S100A12: Enables RAGE receptor binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in seve...
S100A13: Enables several functions, including RAGE receptor binding activity;fibroblast growth factor binding activity; and metal ion bin...
S100A9: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity and calcium-dependentprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including...
SCG3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein localizationto sec...
SERPINA1: Enables identical protein binding activity; protease binding activity;and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involvedin negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Located in Gol...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity.Predicted to be involved ...
SERPINC1: Enables identical protein binding activity and protease bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidaseactivity. Located i...
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis;and response to ba...
SERPING1: Enables serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved innegative regulation of complement activation, lectin pathway. Located in bloodmicroparticle and ext...
SH2B3: Predicted to enable stem cell factor receptor binding activity andtransmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase adaptor activity. Involvedin erythrocyte development; negative regulation of receptor signal...
SIRT6: Enables several functions, including NAD-dependent histone deacetylaseactivity; chromatin binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Invo...
SPOCK2: Enables calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved innegative regulation of endopeptidase activity and positive regulation of cell...
SRC: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation...
STX4: Enables sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, including cornified envelope assembly; positiv...
TFPI2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predictedto be involved in blood coagulation; cellu...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ce...
TIMP2: Enables several functions, including molecular function inhibitor activity;protease binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in negat...
TMPRSS6: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in membraneprotein pr...
TNFAIP3: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of signal tr...
USP14: Enables deubiquitinase activity; endopeptidase inhibitor activity;and proteasome binding activity. Involved in ne...
USP15: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;peptidase activity; and ubiquitin modification-dependent hi...
USP16: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type peptidase activity;ubiquitin binding activity; and zi...
USP8: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathwa...
VCPIP1: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in proteindeu...
WAS: Enables SH3 domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Cdc42 proteinsignal tr...
XPNPEP1: Enables manganese ion binding activity; metalloaminopeptidase...
ZEB1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific. Involved in negative regulati...
ZFPM2: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; transcription coactivator activity; and transcription corepre...
////
AK2: Enables adenylate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleobase-co...
ANP32E: Enables histone binding activity; histone chaperone activity; andprotein foldi...
ASF1A: Enables histone binding activity and histone chaperone activity. Involvedin DNA replication-dependent chr...
ASF1B: Enables histone chaperone activity. Involved in DNA replication-dependentchromatin assem...
ATAD2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in posi...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serinephosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upst...
AURKB: Enables kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including mitotic spindle midzoneassembly; regulation of chromosome organization; and reg...
BARD1: Enables RNA binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including negativ...
BIRC5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; protein dimerization activity; andsmall GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including G2/Mtransition of mitotic cell cycle; negative regulation of nitrogen compoundme...
BRCA1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; nucleicacid binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA repair; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process;and protein ubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to DNA damage. Located in several cellular comp...
BRCA2: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;histone acetyltransferase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; establishmentof protein localization to telomere; and histone acetylati...
BRMS1L: Predicted to enable histone deacetylase binding activity. Predictedto be involved in histone deacetyla...
BUB1B: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Involved in mitotic spindleassembly checkpoint signaling and negative regulation of ubiquitin-proteintransferase activity. Located in several cellular compone...
CBX5: Enables identical protein binding activity; methylated histone bindingactivity; and ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Involved in DNAdamage response an...
CCNB2: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitoticcell cycle phase transition; negative regulation of meiotic cell cycle processinvolved in oocyte maturati...
CCNE1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Involved in G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle andpositive regulation of mesenchymal stem cel...
CCP110: Involved in centriole replication; negative regulation of cilium assembl...
CDC20: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in anaphase-promoting complex-dependentcatabolic process; negative regulation of ubiquitin-pro...
CDC25A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein-folding chaperonebinding activity. Involved in cellular response to UV. Predicted to be locatedin cytosol and nucle...
CDC25B: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cytokinesis; positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle;...
CDCA3: Predicted to be involved in cell divisio...
CDCA8: Involved in mitotic metaphase plate congression. Located in severalcellular components, inclu...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition ofmitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupledelectron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located ...
CDK4: Enables cyclin binding activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in several processes, including G1/S transitionof mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cellcycle; and positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation. Located in severalcellular components, inc...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CDKN1B: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependentprotein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of nitrogen compoundmetabolic process; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth musclecell proliferation; and regulation of cell cycle G1...
CDKN2A: Enables several functions, including MDM2/MDM4 family protein bindingactivity; NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme inhibitor activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of nucleobase-containing compoundmetabolic process; regulation of protein localization; and regulation of proteinmetabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cyclin-dependentprotei...
CDKN2C: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitoractivity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in se...
CDKN3: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosinephosphatase activity. Acts upstream of or...
CENPE: Enables kinetochore binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, including chromosomeorganizati...
CENPM: Located...
CHEK1: Enables histone H3T11 kinase activity; protein domain specific bindingactivity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to mechanical...
CHEK2: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein homodimerization activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including intracellular signal transduction; mitotic spindle assembly; andprotein stabilization. Acts upstrea...
CIT: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity; scaffoldprotein binding activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity.Invo...
CKS1B: Predicted to enable several functions, including cyclin-dependent proteinserine/threonine kinase activator activity; histone binding activity; andubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of m...
CKS2: Predicted to enable several functions, including cyclin-dependent proteinserine/threonine kinase activator activity; histone binding activity; andubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved ...
CNOT9: Enables several functions, including epidermal growth factor receptorbinding activity; nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in...
CSE1L: Predicted to enable nuclear export signal receptor activity. Predictedto b...
CTCF: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription repressor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific; and transcription coregulator binding activity.Involved in several processes, including chromatin looping; protein localizationto chromosome, centr...
CTPS1: Enables CTP synthase activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in B cell proliferation; CT...
DCK: Enables nucleoside kinase activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involv...
DCLRE1B: Enables 5''-3'' exonuclease activity; beta-lactamase activity; andprotein homodimerization activity. Involved in interstrand cross-link re...
DCTPP1: Enables dCTP diphosphatase activity and identical protein bindingactivity...
DDX39A: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved ...
DEK: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in positive regulation oftranscription by RN...
DEPDC1: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Involved in negativere...
DIAPH3: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actinfilament polymerization. Pred...
DLGAP5: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several processes, including centro...
DNMT1: Enables DNA (cytosine-5-)-methyltransferase activity; DNA binding activity;and promoter-specific chromatin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell apoptoticprocess; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of histo...
DONSON: Involved in DNA replication and mitotic G2 DNA damage c...
DSCC1: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involved in maintenance of mitotic sister chromatid cohesion...
DUT: Enables dUTP diphosphatase activity. Involved in ...
E2F8: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA bind...
EED: Enables several functions, including histone methyltransferase activity;identical protein binding activity; and transcription corepressor bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in facultative heterochromatin formationand negat...
EIF2S1: Enables ribosome binding activity and translation initiation factoractivity. Involved in PERK-mediated unfolded protein response and positiveregulation...
ESPL1: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activ...
EXOSC8: Enables identical protein binding activity and mRNA 3''-UTR AU-richregion binding activity. Involved in RNA catabo...
EZH2: Enables chromatin binding activity; histone H3K27 methyltransferaseactivity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including histone H3-K27 trimethylation; negative regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Locatedin chromati...
GINS1: Involved in DNA unwinding involved in DNA replication; positive regulationof DNA primase activity; and...
GINS3: Involved in DNA unwinding involved in DNA replication; positive regulationof DNA p...
GINS4: Involved in DNA unwinding involved in DNA replication; positive regulationof DNA p...
GSPT1: Enables translation release factor activity. Involved in regulationof translational termi...
H2AX: Enables enzyme binding activity and histone binding activity. Involvedin DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in ce...
H2AZ1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; RNA polymerase II core promoter sequence-specific DNA...
HELLS: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including DNA methylation; heterochromatin formation;and lymphocyte proliferation. Predicted to act upstream of or within severalprocesses, including cellular re...
HMGA1: Enables several functions, including catalytic activity, acting onDNA; nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and nucleic acid binding activity.Involved in seve...
HMGB2: Enables DNA binding activity; signaling receptor binding activity;and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of myeloid cell ...
HMGB3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in DNA geometricchange; DNA recombination; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Predicted ...
HMMR: Predicted to enable cargo receptor activity and hyaluronic acid bindingactivity. Predicted to be inv...
HNRNPD: Enables RNA binding activity and telomeric DNA binding activity. Involvedin post-transcriptional regulation of gene expres...
HUS1: Involved in DNA damage checkpoint signaling ...
ILF3: Enables DNA binding activity; double-stranded RNA binding activity;and mRNA 3''-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in negative regul...
ING3: Enables histone H4 acetyltransferase activity and methylated histonebinding activity. Contributes to histone H2A acetyltransferase activity andhistone H4 acetyltransferase activity. Involved in s...
IPO7: Enables SMAD binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein importin...
JPT1: Located in nuclear mem...
KIF18B: Enables cytoskeletal motor activity and kinesin binding activity.Involved in microtub...
KIF22: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitotic m...
KIF2C: Enables microtubule plus-end binding activity. Involved in attachmentof mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore; microtubule cyto...
KIF4A: Predicted to enable microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitoticcytokinesis and mitot...
KPNA2: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity and nuclear localizationsequence binding activity. Involved in NLS-bearing protein import into nucleusand postsynapse to nucleus signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wi...
LBR: Enables NADPH binding activity; chromo shadow domain binding activity;and delta14-sterol reductase activity. Involved in chol...
LIG1: Enables DNA ligase activity. Involved in base-excision repair. Locat...
LMNB1: Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involvedin nuclear envelope organization. Located in nuclear lami...
LUC7L3: Enables mRNA binding activity. In...
LYAR: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transcription regulator...
MAD2L1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including establishment of centrosome localization; negative regulation ofprotein metabolic process; and regulation of mitotic meta...
MCM2: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involv...
MCM3: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to single-stranded DNA helica...
MCM4: Contributes to DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA bindingactivity. Involved...
MCM5: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and sin...
MCM6: Enables identical protein binding activity. Contributes to DNA helicaseactivity and singl...
MCM7: Contributes to DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA bindingactivity. Involved in DNA damage response; DNA unwinding involved in DNA repl...
MELK: Enables calcium ion binding activity; non-membrane spanning proteintyrosine kinase activity; and protein serine/...
MKI67: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of chromosomesegregation and regulation of mitotic nuclear division. Located in chromosome;nuclear body; and nucleolus. Colocalizes with condensed chromosome. Implicatedin Crohn''s diseas...
MLH1: Enables chromatin binding activity and enzyme binding activity. Contributesto MutSalpha complex binding activity and single-stranded DNA binding activity.Acts upstream of or within mismatch repair. Located in ...
MMS22L: Enables single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strandbreak repair via homologous recombination and r...
MRE11: Enables identical protein binding activity and nuclease activity. Contributesto DNA binding activity and DNA helicase activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA metabolic process; chromosome organization; and positive regulationof phosphorylation. A...
MSH2: Enables several functions, including chromatin binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Contributesto several functions, including DNA binding activity; MutLalpha complex bindingactivity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; negative regulation ...
MTHFD2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydro...
MXD3: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-binding transcriptionrepressor activity, R...
MYBL2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis...
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 bindingactivity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulationof fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compoundmetab...
NAA38: Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process. Loc...
NAP1L1: Enables histone chaperone activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleosomeassembly; positive regulation of neural precu...
NASP: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in DNA replication-dependentchromatin assembl...
NBN: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA metabolic process; positive regulation ofphosphorylation; and regulation of telomere maintenance. Acts upstream ofor...
NCAPD2: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosome condensationand positive regulation of chromosome condensation. L...
NME1: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity; and purine ribonucleoside triphosphatebinding activity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA ...
NOLC1: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity; protein heterodimerizationactivity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved...
NOP56: Enables histone methyltransferase binding activity and snoRNA bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA ...
NUDT21: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity; mRNA 3''-UTR AU-richregion binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto RNA binding activity. Involved in...
NUP107: A structural constituent of nuclear pore. Involved in several processes,including female gonad development; mRNA export from nucleus; and nuclearpore co...
NUP153: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein-membrane adaptoractivity. A structural constituent of nuclear pore...
NUP205: A structural constituent of nuclear pore. Involved in nuclear porecomplex assemb...
ORC2: Predicted to enable DNA replication origin binding activity. Predictedto be involved in DNA replication initiation and negative regulation...
ORC6: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof cell divi...
PA2G4: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; transcription corepressor activity;and ubiquitin protein...
PAICS: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxylase activity; and phosphoribosyl...
PAN2: Enables poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity. Predicted t...
PCNA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; MutLalphacomplex binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA repair; cellular response to UV;...
PDS5B: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in mitotic sister chromatidcohesion and negative regulation...
PHF5A: Enables RNA binding activity and zinc ion binding activity. Involvedin mRNA splicing, via spliceosom...
PLK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; anaphase-promotingcomplex binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; regulationof cell cycle process; and regulation of protein m...
PLK4: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in centriole replication; cilium assembly; and proteinphosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within positive re...
PMS2: Enables single base insertion or deletion binding activity. Contributesto MutSalpha complex binding activity and single-stranded DNA binding activity.Involved in mismatch repair. Located in several cell...
PNN: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell adhesionand mRNA splicing, via spliceosome. Pred...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA replicationinitiation and ...
POLD1: Enables DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity; chromatin binding activity;and damaged DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process; cellula...
POLD2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA-templatedDNA replication and ...
POLD3: Enables protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in DNA-templatedDNA replication; error-prone transl...
POLE: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity;and chromatin binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process and G1/Stransition of mitot...
POLE4: Predicted to enable DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involv...
POP7: Enables ribonuclease P RNA binding activity. Contributes to ribonucleaseP activity. In...
PPM1D: Enables mitogen-activated protein kinase binding activity and proteinserine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in negative reg...
PPP1R8: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involvedin negative regula...
PRDX4: Enables molecular adaptor activity and molecular sequestering activity.Predicted to be involved in cell redox homeostasis. Predicted to act upstreamof or wi...
PRIM2: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity and DNA/RNA hybridbinding activity. Involved in DNA repl...
PRKDC: Enables several functions, including DNA-dependent protein kinase activity;RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity;and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnucleic acid metabolic process; positive regulation of nucl...
PRPS1: Enables ATP binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; andribose phosphate diphosphokinase activity. Involved in nervous system developmentand purine-containing compound biosynt...
PSIP1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; chromatinbinding activity; and transcription coactivator acti...
PSMC3IP: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in homologouschromosome...
PTTG1: Enables molecular function activator activity. Predicted to be involvedin homologous chromosome segregation and negative re...
RACGAP1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cytoskeleton-dependent cy...
RAD1: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity. Involved in DNA damage checkpointsignaling; cell...
RAD21: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of sister chromatid cohesion; protein localization to chromatin;and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. ...
RAD50: Enables DNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity; andprotein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Contributes to 3''-5'' exonucleaseactivity; DNA helicase activity; and single-stranded DNA endodeoxyribonucleaseactivity. Involved in several processe...
RAD51AP1: Enables nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in DNA repair; cellularresponse to ioniz...
RAD51C: Contributes to crossover junction DNA endonuclease activity and four-wayjunction DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair viahomologous recombination and positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitoticcell cycle...
RAN: Enables several functions, including guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity;magnesium ion binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributesto pre-miRNA binding activity. Involved in several processe...
RANBP1: Enables GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of mit...
RBBP7: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular heat acclimation; hi...
RFC1: Enables DNA clamp unloader activity. Involved in DNA clamp unloading.Located ...
RFC2: Contributes to DNA clamp loader activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involved...
RFC3: Enables ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA. Contributes to DNA bindingactivity; DNA clamp loader activity; and single-stranded DNA helica...
RNASEH2A: Enables RNA-DNA hybrid ribonuclease activity. Involved in RNA catabolicprocess. Acts upstream o...
RPA1: Enables G-rich strand telomeric DNA binding activity and damaged DNAbinding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic ...
RPA2: Enables DNA binding activity and enzyme binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA metabolic process; regulation of cell cyclephase transition; an...
RPA3: Enables damaged DNA binding activity and single-stranded DNA bi...
RRM2: Predicted to enable ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase activity, thioredoxindisulfide as acceptor. Involved in 2''-deoxyribonucleotide biosynthetic process;positive regulation of G1...
SHMT1: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; glycinehydroxymethyltransferase activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involvedin several processe...
SLBP: Enables identical protein binding activity and mRNA binding activity.Involved in cap-depende...
SMC1A: Enables chromatin binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in chromosome organization; response to DNA damage checkpoint signaling;and response to radia...
SMC3: Enables beta-tubulin binding activity; dynein complex binding activity;and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in chromosome orga...
SMC4: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosomecondensat...
SMC6: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular senescenc...
SNRPB: Enables telomerase RNA binding activity. Involved in spliceosomal snRNPassembly. Acts upstream of or within protein methylation. Located in cytosol...
SPAG5: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in several processes,including protein localization to centrosome; regulati...
SPC24: Predicted to contribute to microtubule binding activity. Involved inattachment...
SPC25: Involved in attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore a...
SRSF1: Enables DNA topoisomerase binding activity and mRNA binding activity.Involved in alternative mRNA splicing, via spliceosome and mRNA 5''-splicesite recognition. Located in cytoplasm and nuclear speck. Part o...
SRSF2: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mRNA splicing,via spliceosome. Predicted to act upstream of or within regulation of alternativemRNA splici...
SSRP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in nucleosome ...
STAG1: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in localizationand mitotic spindle assembly. Loca...
STMN1: Enables tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingestablishment of skin barrier; negative regulation of signal transduction;and...
SUV39H1: Enables histone H3K9 methyltransferase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including energy homeostasis; regulation of DNA-templated transcription;and regulation of h...
SYNCRIP: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to type II interferon; negative regulation of mRNA ...
TACC3: Predicted to enable protein domain specific binding activity. Involvedin metaphase/anaphase transition of mitotic cell cycle; microt...
TBRG4: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial mRNA p...
TCF19: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of gene expression....
TFRC: Enables several functions, including double-stranded RNA binding activity;protein homodimerization activity; and transferrin receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of mitochondrial fusion;positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; and positiver...
TIMELESS: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to bleomycin; cellular response ...
TIPIN: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA integritycheckpoint signali...
TK1: Enables identical protein binding activity; thymidine kinase activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in prote...
TMPO: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to act upstream of o...
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation;and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA re...
TP53: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and nucleicacid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellularsignal transduction; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of nucleobase-containingcompound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulationof cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including ER o...
TRA2B: Enables RNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity; andprotein domain specific binding activity. Involved in cellular res...
TRIP13: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindleassembly checkpoint signaling. Pr...
TUBB: Enables MHC class I protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Acts upstream of or within odontoblast differentiation.Located in several cellu...
TUBG1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule cytoskeleton organization and mitotic sister chromat...
UBE2S: Enables anaphase-promoting complex binding activity and ubiquitin conjugatingenzyme activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involvedin several...
UBE2T: Enables chromatin binding activity; ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase bind...
UBR7: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity a...
UNG: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; ribosomal small subunit bindingactivity; and uracil DNA N-glycosylase activity. Invo...
USP1: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in monoubiquit...
WDR90: Involved in cilium a...
WEE1: Predicted to enable protein tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle and negative regulationof G1/S tra...
XPO1: Enables nuclear export signal receptor activity. Involved in nuclearexport and regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolicprocess. Located in several cellular components, including a...
XRCC6: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; catalyticactivity, acting on DNA; and cyclin binding activity. Contributes to DNA endbinding activity and double-stranded telomeric DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to ga...
ZW10: Predicted to enable centromeric DNA binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including establishment of mitotic spindle orientation; mitotic...
////
ABI3BP: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell-s...
ACTA2: Predicted to enable protein kinase binding activity. Involved in glomerularmesangial cell development and res...
ADAM12: Enables SH3 domain binding activity. Involved in positive regulat...
ANPEP: Predicted to enable metalloaminopeptidase activity; peptide bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, includ...
APLP1: Enables adrenergic receptor binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in cellular response to norepinephrine stimulusand n...
AREG: Enables receptor ligand activity and transmembrane receptor proteintyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in ERBB2-EGFR signaling pathway;G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; and pos...
BASP1: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and transcriptioncorepressor activity. Involved in negative regulat...
BDNF: Predicted to enable growth factor activity and nerve growth factor receptorbinding activity. Involved in nervous system development; positive regulationof nervous system development; and positive regulation of receptor bindingactivity. Located in mitochondrion and nuclear speck....
BGN: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringcompression resistance. Predicted to act upstream of or within articular cartilagedevelopment; bone developm...
BMP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and peptidase activity. Involvedin proteolysis. Acts upstream of or within positi...
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cell recognition; positive regulation of cytokine pr...
CALD1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in act...
CALU: Enables calcium ion binding activity. Located in Golgi apparatus...
CAP2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cAMP-mediated signaling; cell morphog...
CAPG: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including actin filament severing; actin polymerizationor depolyme...
CCN1: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regu...
CCN2: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of MAPK cascade; ...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Loc...
CD59: Predicted to enable complement binding activity. Acts upstream of orwithin regulation of complement activation and regulation of complement-dependent...
CDH11: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Involved in focal adhesion a...
CDH2: Enables alpha-catenin binding activity; beta-catenin binding activity;and gamma-catenin binding activity. Involved in cell-cell adhesion. Locatedin several cellular components, including adherens junct...
CDH6: Predicted to enable cadherin binding activity and calcium ion bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesionvia pl...
COL11A1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involvedin detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound;endodermal cell dif...
COL12A1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringtensile strength. Involved in endodermal cell diff...
COL16A1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in cell adhesion mediatedby integrin; in...
COL1A1: Enables identical protein binding activity; platelet-derived growthfactor binding activity; and protease binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including collagen biosynthetic process; collagen fibril organization;and skin morphogenesis. Acts upstream of or within skeletal system development.Located in extracellul...
COL1A2: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;platelet-derived growth factor binding activity; and protease binding activity.Involved in several processes, including Rho protein signal transduction;collagen...
COL3A1: Enables integrin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; and protease binding activity. An extracellular matrix structuralconstituent. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptorsi...
COL4A1: Enables platelet-derived growth factor binding activity. An extracellularmatrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. Involved in basementmembrane or...
COL4A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation and negative re...
COL5A1: Enables heparin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factor bindingactivity; and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes,including collagen biosynthe...
COL5A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in several processes, including collagen fibril organization;negative reg...
COL5A3: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Predicted to be involved in...
COL6A2: Enables collagen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in celladhesion and response to glucose. Located in extracellul...
COL6A3: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringtensile strength. Predicted to be involved in muscle organ developm...
COL7A1: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation. Lo...
COL8A2: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in extracellular matrix organization. Predicted to act upstreamof...
COLGALT1: Enables procollagen galactosyltransferase activity. Involved inpositive regulati...
COMP: Enables several functions, including heparan sulfate proteoglycan bindingactivity; heparin binding activity; and protease binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cartilage...
COPA: Predicted to enable mRNA binding activity. Acts upstream of or withinpancreatic juice secretion. Locate...
CRLF1: Enables cytokine binding activity. Contributes to ciliary neurotrophicfactor receptor binding activity and cytokine activity. Involved in negativeregulation...
CTHRC1: Predicted to enable Wnt-protein binding activity and frizzled bindingactivity. Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent.Predicted to act upstream of or within severa...
CXCL1: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide and killing of cells of a...
CXCL12: Enables CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including integrinactivation; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of leukocytemigration. Acts upstream of or within positive regulat...
CXCL6: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to lipopolysaccharide; neutrophil acti...
CXCL8: Enables chemokine activity; heparin binding activity; and interleukin-8receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to cytokine stimulus; induction of positive chemotaxis; and neutrophilchemotaxis. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cell adhesionmolecule production; positive regulatio...
DAB2: Enables SMAD binding activity; cargo receptor activity; and clathrinadaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation...
DCN: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of autophagy.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulationof mitochondrial depolarization; positive regulation of mit...
DKK1: Enables co-receptor binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particlereceptor binding activity; and receptor antagonist activity. Involved in seve...
DPYSL3: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including actin filament organization; regulation of plasma membranebounded cell projection organization; and response to axon in...
DST: Enables integrin binding activity; microtubule plus-end binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcytoskeleton organiza...
ECM1: Enables laminin binding activity and protease binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of bone mi...
ECM2: Predicted to enable collagen V binding activity and heparin bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in extracellular matrix ...
EDIL3: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell adhesion. Predicted to a...
EFEMP2: Enables heparin binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in elastic fiber assembly and positive regulation of smooth musclecell-matrix adhesion. Located in ...
ELN: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involvedin outflow tract morphogenesis. Located in elastic fiber. Implicated in severaldiseases, including Williams-Beuren syndrome; ...
EMP3: Involved in bleb assembly an...
ENO2: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycolytic process. Located in cytosol and plasm...
FAP: Enables several functions, including integrin binding activity; peptidaseactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including endothelial cell migration; negative regu...
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellsurface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolicprocess; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withinapoptotic process. Located in several cellu...
FBLN1: Enables several functions, including fibrinogen binding activity; fibronectinbinding activity; and integrin binding activity. An extracellular matrix structuralconstituent. Involved in sever...
FBLN2: Predicted to enable extracellular matrix binding activity and extracellularmatrix constituent conferring elast...
FBLN5: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in elastic fiberassembly and secretion. Located in collagen-containing ext...
FBN1: Enables several functions, including heparin binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. An extracellularmatrix structural constituent. Involved in several processes, including activationof protein kinase A activi...
FBN2: Enables hormone activity. Involved in eye development; placenta development;and regulation of tropho...
FERMT2: Enables several functions, including actin binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity; and type I transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; po...
FGF2: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; andregulation of cell migration...
FLNA: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; protein localizationto membrane; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. A...
FMOD: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringcompression resistance. Predicted to be involved in tran...
FN1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; identical protein binding activity; and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including integrin activation; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Locatedin collagen-containing extra...
FOXC2: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription activator activity,RNA polymerase II-specific; and identical protein binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including circulatory system dev...
FSTL1: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including endothelial cell different...
FSTL3: Enables activin binding activity and fibronectin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including hematopoietic progenitor cell differ...
FUCA1: Enables alpha-L-fucosidase activity. Involved in fucose metabolic processand glycoside catabolic process. Locat...
FZD8: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; Wnt receptor activity; and ubiquitinprotein ligase binding activity. Involved in canonical Wnt...
GADD45A: Enables kinase binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes...
GADD45B: Involved in positive regulation of JNK cascade; positive regulation...
GAS1: Involved in several processes, including cellular response to vascularendothelial growth factor...
GEM: Enables GTPase activity; guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity; andmagnesium ion binding activity. Invol...
GJA1: Enables several functions, including alpha-tubulin binding activity;beta-catenin binding activity; and gap junction channel activity. Involvedin several processes, including establishment of mitotic spindle orientation;negative regulation of gonadotropin secretion; and negative regulation oftrophoblast cell ...
GLIPR1: Located ...
GPC1: Enables copper ion binding activity. Involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycancatabolic pr...
GPX7: Enables catalase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular responseto ox...
GREM1: Enables BMP binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation...
HTRA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and molecular function activatoractivity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of apoptotic process;programmed cell death; and proteolysis. Predicted to act upstream of or withinchorionic trophoblast cell differentiation; negative regulation of transmembranerecepto...
ID2: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of DNA-binding transcription factor ac...
IGFBP2: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity. Involved inpositive regulation of activated T ...
IGFBP3: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of smooth muscle cell migration; negative regulation ofsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and positive regulation of myoblast differentiation.Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cell ...
IGFBP4: Predicted to enable insulin-like growth factor I binding activityand insulin-like growth factor II binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Pred...
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation;and positive regulation of macromolecule metaboli...
IL32: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Acts upstream of or within positiveregulation of type III interferon production. Located in membrane. Implicatedin chronic cervicitis; hepatiti...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto lipopolysaccharide; positive regulatio...
INHBA: Enables identical protein binding activity; peptide hormone bindingactivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including gonad development; neuron ...
ITGA2: Enables collagen binding activity involved in cell-matrix adhesionand collagen receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including celladhesion mediated by integrin; cell surface receptor signaling pathway; andmesodermal cell differenti...
ITGA5: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; negative regulationof...
ITGAV: Enables several functions, including extracellular matrix protein bindingactivity; fibronectin binding activity; and integrin binding activity. Contributesto C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; negativeregulat...
ITGB1: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity involvedin cell-matrix adhesion; enzyme binding activity; and fibronectin bindingactivity. Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; cell-cell adhesionmediated b...
ITGB3: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;protein disulfide isomerase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including apolipoprotein A-I-mediatedsignaling pathway; negative regulation of lipid localization; and positiveregulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negativeregulation of low-density lipoprotein recep...
ITGB5: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface re...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMADbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationby host of viral transcript...
LAMA1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including axon guidance; blood vesselmorphogenesis; and camera-type eye d...
LAMA2: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in animal organ morphogenesis; axon guidance; and tissue development.Predicted to act up...
LAMA3: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be an extracellularmatrix structural constituent...
LAMC1: An extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involved in severalprocesses, including extracellular matrix disass...
LAMC2: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inpositive regulation of cell migration and positive regulation of cell populationp...
LGALS1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of apoptotic process; positive r...
LOX: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; protein-lysine6-oxidase activity; and small molecule binding activity. Involved i...
LOXL1: Predicted to enable protein-lysine 6-oxidase activity. Predicted tobe involved in collagen fibril organization and peptidyl-lysine oxi...
LOXL2: Enables metal ion binding activity; oligosaccharide binding activity;and protein-lysine 6-oxidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcollagen fi...
LRP1: Enables alpha-2 macroglobulin receptor activity; apolipoprotein bindingactivity; and clathrin heavy chain binding activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid-beta clearance by ce...
LRRC15: Enables collagen binding activity; fibronectin binding activity; andlaminin binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of protein localiz...
LUM: Enables collagen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in visualperception. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation oftranscription by RNA polymerase II. L...
MAGEE1: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription byRNA polymerase II. Pr...
MATN2: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in extracellular ma...
MATN3: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in skeletal system development. Predicted to act upstream ofor within cartilage development. Predicted to be ...
MCM7: Contributes to DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA bindingactivity. Involved in DNA damage response; DNA unwinding involved in DNA repl...
MEST: Predicted to enable hydrolase activity. Predicted to be involved ...
MFAP5: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in definitive hemopoiesis and embryonic...
MGP: Predicted to be a structural constituent of bone. Predicted to be involvedin cartilage condensation and ossification. Located in extracellular exosome.Colo...
MMP1: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in cellular responseto UV-A; positive regulation of protein-containing complex assembly; and proteolysis.Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be part of collagentrimer. Implicated in several disea...
MMP14: Enables endopeptidase activity and metalloaminopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including endodermal cell differentiation;regulation of protein localization to plasma membrane; and zymogen activation.Located in several ce...
MMP2: Enables metallopeptidase activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; endodermalcell differentiation; and positive regulation of vascular associated smoothmuscle cell proliferation. Located ...
MMP3: Enables endopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to UV-A; negative regulationof hydrogen peroxide metabolic process; and positive regulation of protein-containingcomplex assembly. Predic...
MSX1: Enables p53 binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNAbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including embryonic na...
MXRA5: An extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involved in responseto tr...
MYL9: Predicted to enable myosin heavy chain binding activity. Involved inplatelet aggregation. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted t...
MYLK: Enables myosin light chain kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including aorta smooth muscle tissue morphogenesis; bleb assembly; and cellularhypotonic respons...
NID2: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved i...
NNMT: Enables nicotinamide N-methyltransferase activity. Involved in nicotinamidemetabolic process and ...
NOTCH2: Predicted to enable several functions, including NF-kappaB bindingactivity; calcium ion binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular resp...
NT5E: Enables several functions, including 5''-deoxynucleotidase activity;5''-nucleotidase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, includ...
NTM: Predicted to be involved in neuron recognition....
OXTR: Predicted to enable oxytocin receptor activity; peptide binding activity;and vasopressin receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes,including maternal process involved in parturition; p...
P3H1: Predicted to enable procollagen-proline 3-dioxygenase activity. Predictedto contribute to collagen binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regul...
PCOLCE: Enables collagen binding activity; heparin binding activity; and peptidaseactivator activity. Predicted to be involved in proteo...
PCOLCE2: Enables collagen binding activity; heparin binding activity; andpeptidase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in ...
PDGFRB: Enables several functions, including growth factor binding activity;platelet-derived growth factor beta-receptor activity; and platelet-derivedgrowth factor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingplatelet-derived growth factor receptor signaling pathway...
PDLIM4: Enables alpha-actinin binding activity; protein homodimerization activity;and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in actin c...
PFN2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity; actin monomer binding activity; andphosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Involved in sever...
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation ofepidermal growth factor receptor signaling pat...
PLOD1: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in epidermisdevelopment; peptidyl-l...
PLOD2: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in hydroxylysinebiosynthetic ...
PLOD3: Enables several functions, including hexosyltransferase activity; metalion binding activity; and procollagen-lysine 5-dio...
PMEPA1: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and WW domain binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of SMAD protein complex assembly; negative regulationof pathway-restricted SMAD protein phos...
PMP22: Predicted to enable cytoskeletal motor activity. Involved in bleb assemblyand cell death. Located in plas...
POSTN: Enables metal ion binding activity. Involved in cell adhesion and cellularresponse to vitamin K. Located in collagen-co...
PPIB: Enables RNA polymerase binding activity; cyclosporin A binding activity;and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Involved in several processes,including...
PRRX1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity...
PRSS2: Enables calcium ion binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Inv...
PTHLH: Enables peptide hormone receptor binding activity. Acts upstream ofor within several processes, including adenylate cyclase-activating G protei...
PTX3: Enables complement component C1q complex binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and virion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including modulation by host of viral process; negative regul...
PVR: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity d...
QSOX1: Enables FAD binding activity; flavin-linked sulfhydryl oxidase activity;and protein disulfide isomerase activit...
RGS4: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity; GTPase activity; andcalmodulin binding activity. Predicted t...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
SAT1: Enables diamine N-acetyltransferase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in angioge...
SCG2: Enables chemoattractant activity and cytokine activity. Involved inseveral processes, includi...
SDC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof exosomal secretion; positive regulation...
SDC4: Enables identical protein binding activity and thrombospondin receptoractivity. Involved in negative regulation of T cell pro...
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis;and response to bacterium. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix;...
SERPINE2: Enables heparin binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof blood coagulation; negative regulation of plasmi...
SERPINH1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in collagenfibril organization and negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Predictedto act upstream of or within chondrocyte development involved in endochondralbone morphogene...
SFRP1: Enables several functions, including Wnt-protein binding activity;frizzled binding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to lipid; negative regulation of cellpopulati...
SFRP4: Enables Wnt-protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of sodium-dependent phosphate transport; positiveregulation of keratinocyte apoptot...
SGCB: Predicted to be involved in muscle organ development. Predicted to actupstream of or within cardiac muscle cell development and vascu...
SGCD: Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle tissue development and heartcontraction. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includingcalcium-mediated...
SGCG: Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle tissue development and heartcontraction. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane....
SLC6A8: Enables creatine:sodium symporter activity. Involved in creatine transmembranetr...
SLIT2: Enables several functions, including GTPase inhibitor activity; Roundaboutbinding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in sever...
SLIT3: Enables Roundabout binding activity. Involved in several processes,including apoptotic process involved ...
SNAI2: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and E-box binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingmesenchy...
SNTB1: Predicted to enable several functions, including PDZ domain bindingactivity; actin binding activity...
SPARC: Enables calcium ion binding activity and collagen binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of angiogenesis;negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and positive regulationof ...
SPOCK1: Enables calcium ion binding activity; cysteine-type endopeptidaseinhibitor activity; and metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involvedin negativ...
SPP1: Enables integrin binding activity; ion binding activity; and small moleculebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including androgen catabolicprocess; cellular response to testosterone stimulus; and positive regulationof estradiol secretion. Located in G...
TAGLN: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Involved in epithe...
TFPI2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predictedto be involved in blood coagulation; cellular response to fluid shear st...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial tomesenchymal transition; negative regulation o...
TGFBI: Enables collagen binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in angiogenesis and localizat...
TGFBR3: Enables several functions, including transforming growth factor betabinding activity; transforming growth factor beta receptor activity, typeIII; and type II transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity.Inv...
TGM2: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; N-acyltransferaseactivity; and protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular...
THBS1: Enables several functions, including collagen V binding activity; fibrinogenbinding activity; and fibroblast growth factor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of cell migration; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation of endothelial cellchemotaxis;...
THBS2: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity. Involv...
THY1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in integrin-mediated signalingpathway; positive regulati...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to UV-A; negative re...
TIMP3: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and proteasebinding activity. Involved in negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade;negative regulation of membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis; and positiveregulation of TRAIL-activated apoptotic...
TNC: Enables syndecan binding activity. Involved in regulation of cell adhesion;regulation of cell growth; and response to wounding. Located in collagen-containingextracellular matr...
TNFAIP3: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein modificationby small protein ...
TNFRSF11B: Predicted to enable cytokine activity and signaling receptor activity.Predicted to be involved in signal transduction and skeletal system development.Predicted to act upstream of or within extracellular matrix organization andnegative regulation o...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regu...
TPM1: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell migration;negative regulation of vascular...
TPM2: Enables actin binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in regulation of ATP-dependent activity. Predicted to be ...
TPM4: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity; protein heterodimerization...
VCAM1: Enables integrin binding activity and primary amine oxidase activity.Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling usingintracellular calcium source; cell-cell adhesion in response to extracellularstimulus; and cellular response to amyloid-beta. Located in...
VCAN: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase binding activity. Predictedto be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferrin...
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; pos...
VEGFC: Enables chemoattractant activity and vascular endothelial growth factorreceptor 3 binding activity. Involved in induction of positive chemotaxis;positive regulation of mast cell chemotaxis; and vascular endothelial growthfactor receptor signali...
VIM: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;keratin filament binding activity; and scaffold protein binding activity.A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to muramyl ...
WIPF1: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and protein folding chaperone.Predicted to be involved in actin filament-based move...
WNT5A: Enables frizzled binding activity and receptor tyrosine kinase-likeorphan receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; and regulation of ...
////
ABL1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; metal ionbinding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; regulation ofcytoskeleton organization; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Actsupstream of or within several processe...
AMD1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin spermidine biosynthetic proce...
ARID4A: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-template...
ATF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatoryregion sequence-spe...
ATRX: Enables several functions, including DNA translocase activity; chromoshadow domain binding activity; and methylated histone binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of maintenance of mitoticsister chromatid cohesion, telomeric; nucleosome assembly; and positive regulationof...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serinephosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upst...
AURKB: Enables kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including mitotic spindle midzoneassembly; regulation of chromosome organization; and reg...
BARD1: Enables RNA binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including negativ...
BCL3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcriptioncorepressor activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellularsignal tra...
BIRC5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; protein dimerization activity; andsmall GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including G2/Mtransition of mitotic cell cycle; negative regulation of nitrogen compoundme...
BRCA2: Enables several functions, including gamma-tubulin binding activity;histone acetyltransferase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including DNA metabolic process; establishmentof protein localization to telomere; and histone acetylati...
BUB1: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Involved in regulationof chromosome segregat...
BUB3: Predicted to enable ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in attachmentof spindle microtubules to kinetochore; nega...
CASP8AP2: Enables SUMO polymer binding activity and transcription corepressoractivity. Involved in activation of cysteine-type end...
CBX1: Enables DNA binding activity; histone methyltransferase binding activity;and molecular adaptor activity. ...
CCNA2: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulatoractivity; protein domain specific binding activity; and protein kinase bindingactivity. Involved in...
CCNB2: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitoticcell cycle phase transition; negative regulation of meiotic cell cycle processinvolved in oocyte maturati...
CCND1: Enables enzyme binding activity; proline-rich region binding activity;and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity;regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and response to UV-A. Locatedin cyclin D1-...
CCNF: Enables anaphase-promoting complex binding activity. Involved in SCF-dependentproteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; negative re...
CCNT1: Enables several functions, including cyclin-dependent protein serine/threoninekinase activator activity; molecular condensate scaffold activity; and nucleicac...
CDC20: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in anaphase-promoting complex-dependentcatabolic process; negative regulation of ubiquitin-pro...
CDC25A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein-folding chaperonebinding activity. Involved in cellular response to UV. Predicted to be locatedin cytosol and nucle...
CDC25B: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cytokinesis; positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle;...
CDC27: Enables protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in protein K11-linkedubiquitination. Acts upstream of o...
CDC45: Predicted to enable DNA replication origin binding activity; chromatinbinding activity; and single-stranded DNA bin...
CDC6: Enables kinase binding activity. Involved in mitotic cell cycle andregulation of cell cycle proc...
CDC7: Enables protein kinase activity. Involved in cell cycle phase transition;positive regulation of cell cycle proces...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition ofmitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupledelectron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located ...
CDK4: Enables cyclin binding activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in several processes, including G1/S transitionof mitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cellcycle; and positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation. Located in severalcellular components, inc...
CDKN1B: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependentprotein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of nitrogen compoundmetabolic process; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth musclecell proliferation; and regulation of cell cycle G1...
CDKN2C: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitoractivity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in se...
CDKN3: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosinephosphatase activity. Acts upstream of or...
CENPA: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including centromere complex assembly; establishment of mitoticspindle or...
CENPE: Enables kinetochore binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, including chromosomeorganizati...
CENPF: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; dynein complexbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including metaphase plate c...
CHAF1A: Enables chromo shadow domain binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in DNA replication-dependent chromatin assemblya...
CHEK1: Enables histone H3T11 kinase activity; protein domain specific bindingactivity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to mechanical...
CHMP1A: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including midbody abscission; plasmamembrane repair; and regulation of cell cycle p...
CKS1B: Predicted to enable several functions, including cyclin-dependent proteinserine/threonine kinase activator activity; histone binding activity; andubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of m...
CKS2: Predicted to enable several functions, including cyclin-dependent proteinserine/threonine kinase activator activity; histone binding activity; andubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved ...
CTCF: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription repressor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific; and transcription coregulator binding activity.Involved in several processes, including chromatin looping; protein localizationto chromosome, centr...
CUL1: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity; ubiquitinprotein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.Invo...
CUL3: Enables several functions, including Notch binding activity; POZ domainbinding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributesto ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in several processes,including COPII vesic...
CUL4A: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity; ubiquitinprotein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transf...
CUL5: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic processand prote...
DBF4: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity.Predicted to be invol...
DDX39A: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved ...
DKC1: Enables box H/ACA snoRNA binding activity; pseudouridine synthase activity;and telomerase RNA binding activity. Contributes to telomerase activity. Involvedin several processes, including nucleic acid metabolic process; positive re...
DMD: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and dystroglycan bindingactivity. A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in several processes,including cardiac muscle contraction; positive regulation of neuron differentiation;and positive regulation of n...
DR1: Enables RNA polymerase II general transcription initiation factor activityand TBP-class protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including...
DTYMK: Enables ATP binding activity and thymidylate kinase activity. Involvedin dTDP biosynthetic...
E2F1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity; DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;and cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in responseto DNA damage...
E2F2: Enables cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity.Contributes to DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase...
E2F3: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity and cis-regulatoryregion sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Contributes to DNA-bindingtranscription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymeraseII transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding acti...
E2F4: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory regionsequence-...
EFNA5: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including ephrin receptor signaling pathway; regulation of cytoskeleton organizat...
EGF: Enables growth factor activity; guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity;and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, including epidermal growth factor receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of...
ESPL1: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activ...
EWSR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin DNA-templated t...
EXO1: Enables DNA binding activity and DNA nuclease activity. Invol...
EZH2: Enables chromatin binding activity; histone H3K27 methyltransferaseactivity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including histone H3-K27 trimethylation; negative regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Locatedin chromati...
FANCC: Involved in protein monoubiquitination. Located in chromatin and cytosol.Part of Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. Implicated in seve...
FBXO5: Enables several functions, including anaphase-promoting complex bindingactivity; molecular function inhibitor activity; and ubiquitin ligase inhibitoractivit...
FOXN3: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA...
G3BP1: Enables DNA helicase activity; DNA/RNA helicase activity; and RNA helicaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including...
GINS2: Involved in DNA unwinding involved in DNA replication; positive regulationof DNA p...
GSPT1: Enables translation release factor activity. Involved in regulationof translational termi...
H2AX: Enables enzyme binding activity and histone binding activity. Involvedin DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Located in ce...
H2AZ1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; RNA polymerase II core promoter sequence-specific DNA...
H2AZ2: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Predicted to be...
H2BC12: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in defense responseto oth...
HIF1A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andenzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including intracellular oxygen homeostasis; regulationof gene...
HIRA: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and h...
HMGA1: Enables several functions, including catalytic activity, acting onDNA; nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and nucleic acid binding activity.Involved in seve...
HMGB3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in DNA geometricchange; DNA recombination; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII. Predicted ...
HMGN2: Enables molecular adaptor activity and nucleic acid binding activity.Involved in antimicrobial humora...
HMMR: Predicted to enable cargo receptor activity and hyaluronic acid bindingactivity. Predicted to be inv...
HNRNPD: Enables RNA binding activity and telomeric DNA binding activity. Involvedin post-transcriptional regulation of gene expres...
HNRNPU: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; basal RNApolymerase II transcription machinery binding activity; and nucleic acid bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including protein localization toorganelle; regulation of cell cycle process; and regulation of nucl...
HOXC10: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory regi...
HSPA8: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP-dependentprotein disaggregase activity; and C3HC4-type RING finger domain binding activity.Involved in several processes, including ATP metabolic process; protein refolding;and protein targeting to lysosome involved in ...
HUS1: Involved in DNA damage checkpoint signaling ...
ILF3: Enables DNA binding activity; double-stranded RNA binding activity;and mRNA 3''-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in negative regul...
INCENP: Enables molecular function activator activity. Involved in chromosomesegregation and mitotic cytokinesis. ...
JPT1: Located in nuclear mem...
KATNA1: Enables microtubule binding activity; microtubule severing ATPaseactivity; and protein hete...
KIF11: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindleassembly and regulation of mitotic centrosome separation. Located in cytosol;mic...
KIF15: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;...
KIF20B: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; WW domainbinding activity; and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. In...
KIF22: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitotic m...
KIF23: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in mitotic cytokinesis;mitotic spindle midzone assembly; and positive regulat...
KIF2C: Enables microtubule plus-end binding activity. Involved in attachmentof mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore; microtubule cyto...
KIF4A: Predicted to enable microtubule motor activity. Involved in mitoticcytokinesis and mitot...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, inclu...
KMT5A: Enables histone H4K20 methyltransferase activity; p53 binding activity;and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative reg...
KNL1: Involved in attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore. Actsupstream of or within protein localization to kinetoch...
KPNA2: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity and nuclear localizationsequence binding activity. Involved in NLS-bearing protein import into nucleusand postsynapse to nucleus signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wi...
KPNB1: Enables enzyme binding activity and protein domain specific bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including import into nucleus; microtubulecytoskeleton organiza...
LBR: Enables NADPH binding activity; chromo shadow domain binding activity;and delta14-sterol reductase activity. Involved in chol...
LIG3: Enables DNA ligase (ATP) activity. Involved in DNA repair and negativeregulation of mitochondrial DNA replica...
LMNB1: Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Involvedin nuclear envelope organization. Located in nuclear lami...
MAD2L1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including establishment of centrosome localization; negative regulation ofprotein metabolic process; and regulation of mitotic meta...
MAP3K20: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; JUN kinasekinase kinase activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular ...
MAPK14: Enables MAP kinase activity; mitogen-activated protein kinase p38binding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to radiation; intracel...
MARCKS: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in actin filament organization; central ne...
MCM2: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involv...
MCM3: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to single-stranded DNA helica...
MCM5: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and sin...
MCM6: Enables identical protein binding activity. Contributes to DNA helicaseactivity and singl...
MEIS1: Enables DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes,including angiogenesis; negative regulation of myeloid cell differentiation;and positive regulation of transcription by R...
MEIS2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cardiac muscle myoblastproliferation; positiv...
MKI67: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of chromosomesegregation and regulation of mitotic nuclear division. Located in chromosome;nuclear body; and nucleolus. Colocalizes with condensed chromosome. Implicatedin Crohn''s diseas...
MNAT1: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of DNA helicase activity; regulationof G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle; and ...
MT2A: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to erythropoietin; cellular response to interleukin-3; and cellularresp...
MTF2: Enables methylated histone binding activity and transcription corepressorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingregulation of hist...
MYBL2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis...
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 bindingactivity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulationof fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compoundmetab...
NASP: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in DNA replication-dependentchromatin assembl...
NCL: Enables several functions, including DNA topoisomerase binding activity;identical protein binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involvedin angiogenesis; negative regu...
NDC80: Enables identical protein binding activity and kinetochore adaptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including chromosome organization;microtubule cytoskeleton organization involved in mitosis; and positi...
NEK2: Enables protein kinase activity and protein phosphatase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including centrosome separation; positive re...
NOLC1: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity; protein heterodimerizationactivity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved...
NOTCH2: Predicted to enable several functions, including NF-kappaB bindingactivity; calcium ion binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular resp...
NSD2: Enables histone H3K36 methyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Predicted to act upstream ofor w...
NUMA1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; dynein complex binding activity; and microtubule binding activity.Involved in several processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization;regul...
NUP50: Predicted to be involved in protein import into nucleus. Predicted...
NUP98: Enables mRNA binding activity; promoter-specific chromatin bindingactivity; and transcription coactivator activity. A structural constituentof nuclear pore. Involved in nuclear pore c...
NUSAP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including establishment of mitotic spindle localization; mitotic chromosomecondensa...
ODC1: Enables ornithine decarboxylase activity. Involved in respo...
ODF2: Enables small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including centriole-centriole cohesion; cilium or...
ORC5: Predicted to enable DNA replication origin binding activity. Involvedin regulation of...
ORC6: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof cell divi...
PAFAH1B1: Enables dynein complex binding activity. Involved in several processes,including adult locomotory behavior; microtubule cytoskeleton organization;and nervous system development...
PBK: Predicted to enable JUN kinase kinase kinase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in p38MAPK cascade; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and positiveregulation of mitotic...
PDS5B: Enables DNA binding activity. Involved in mitotic sister chromatidcohesion and negative regulation...
PLK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; anaphase-promotingcomplex binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; regulationof cell cycle process; and regulation of protein m...
PLK4: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in centriole replication; cilium assembly; and proteinphosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within positive re...
PML: Enables several functions, including protein dimerization activity; sumo-dependentprotein binding activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of apoptotic process;regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabo...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA replicationinitiation and ...
POLE: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity;and chromatin binding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic process and G1/Stransition of mitot...
POLQ: Enables catalytic activity, acting on DNA; chromatin binding activity;and identical protein binding activity. Involved in ...
PRC1: Enables identical protein binding activity; kinesin binding activity;and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in po...
PRIM2: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity and DNA/RNA hybridbinding activity. Involved in DNA repl...
PRMT5: Enables several functions, including methyl-CpG binding activity; p53binding activity; and protein-arginine N-methyltransferase activity. Involvedin several processes, including RNA metabolic process; histone H4-R3 methylation;and pos...
PRPF4B: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in p...
PTTG1: Enables molecular function activator activity. Predicted to be involvedin homologous chromosome segregation and negative re...
PTTG3P: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin homologous chromosome se...
PURA: Enables double-stranded telomeric DNA binding activity. Involved inDNA unwinding involved in DNA replicatio...
RACGAP1: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cytoskeleton-dependent cy...
RAD21: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of sister chromatid cohesion; protein localization to chromatin;and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. ...
RAD23B: Enables DNA damage sensor activity and polyubiquitin modification-dependentprotein binding activity. Involved i...
RAD54L: Enables ATP-dependent DNA/DNA annealing activity. Predicted to beinvolved in double-strand break repair via synthesis-dependent strand annealingand reciprocal meiotic recombination. Predicted to act upstream of or within...
RASAL2: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predic...
RBL1: Enables promoter-specific chromatin binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of cellular ...
RBM14: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including centriole assembly...
RPA2: Enables DNA binding activity and enzyme binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including DNA metabolic process; regulation of cell cyclephase transition; an...
RPS6KA5: Enables ATP binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including inter...
SAP30: Enables transcription corepressor activity. Involved in modulationby host of symbiont tran...
SFPQ: Enables DNA binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingalternative mRNA splicing, via spliceosome; p...
SLC12A2: Enables several functions, including Hsp90 protein binding activity;inorganic cation transmembrane transporter activity; and protein-folding chaperonebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including inorganic cationtransmembrane transport; t...
SLC38A1: Predicted to enable amino acid transmembrane transporter activity.Predicted to be involved in several processes, including amino acid metabolicpro...
SLC7A1: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity; L-histidinetransmembrane transporter activity; and L-lysine transm...
SLC7A5: Enables L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and secondaryactive transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes,including amino acid transport; phenylalanine transport; and thyroid hormonetransport. Located in apical plasma mem...
SMAD3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; SMAD binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributesto DNA-binding transcription factor activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathwa...
SMARCC1: Contributes to nucleosomal DNA binding activity. Involved in nucleosomedisassembly and positive regulation of DNA-templated t...
SMC1A: Enables chromatin binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in chromosome organization; response to DNA damage checkpoint signaling;and response to radia...
SMC2: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in mitoticchromosome condensation and positive regulation of chro...
SMC4: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosomecondensat...
SNRPD1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in spliceosomal snRNP assembly.Located in cytosol and spliceosomal complex. Part of several cellular c...
SQLE: Enables FAD binding activity and squalene monooxygenase activity. Involvedin lipid droplet formatio...
SRSF1: Enables DNA topoisomerase binding activity and mRNA binding activity.Involved in alternative mRNA splicing, via spliceosome and mRNA 5''-splicesite recognition. Located in cytoplasm and nuclear speck. Part o...
SRSF10: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in mRNA splice site recognitionand ne...
SRSF2: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mRNA splicing,via spliceosome. Predicted to act upstream of or within regulation of alternativemRNA splici...
SS18: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in positivereg...
STAG1: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in localizationand mitotic spindle assembly. Loca...
STIL: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle and positive regulation of centriolereplication. Act...
STMN1: Enables tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingestablishment of skin barrier; negative regulation of signal transduction;and...
SUV39H1: Enables histone H3K9 methyltransferase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including energy homeostasis; regulation of DNA-templated transcription;and regulation of h...
SYNCRIP: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to type II interferon; negative regulation of mRNA ...
TACC3: Predicted to enable protein domain specific binding activity. Involvedin metaphase/anaphase transition of mitotic cell cycle; microt...
TENT4A: Enables guanylyltransferase activity. Involved in RNA 3'' uridylation;regulation ...
TFDP1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity and proteindomain specific binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcriptionactivator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II transcriptionregulatory region ...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial tomesenchymal transition; negative regulation o...
TLE3: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Predicted tobe involved in negative regulatio...
TMPO: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to act upstream of o...
TNPO2: Predicted to enable nuclear import signal receptor activity and nuclearlocalization sequence binding activity. Predicted to be involved in proteinimport into nucleus. ...
TOP1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; DNA bindingactivity; and DNA topoisomerase type I (single strand cut, ATP-independent)activity. Involved in se...
TOP2A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; magnesiumion binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including DNA metabolic process; apoptotic chromosome condensation;and positive regulation of single stranded viral RNA re...
TPX2: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved in activation of protein kinase acti...
TRA2B: Enables RNA binding activity; identical protein binding activity; andprotein domain specific binding activity. Involved in cellular res...
TRAIP: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regul...
TROAP: Predicted to be involved in cell...
TTK: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activity and proteinserine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of metaphase/anaph...
UBE2C: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin-like proteinligase binding activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.Involved...
UBE2S: Enables anaphase-promoting complex binding activity and ubiquitin conjugatingenzyme activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involvedin several...
UCK2: Enables cytidine kinase activity; identical protein binding activity;and uridine ki...
UPF1: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; helicaseactivity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes,incl...
WRN: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA helicaseactivity; and metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingDNA geometric change; DNA metabolic process; and cellular response to gammaradiation. Acts up...
XPO1: Enables nuclear export signal receptor activity. Involved in nuclearexport and regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolicprocess. Located in several cellular components, including a...
YTHDC1: Enables N6-methyladenosine-containing RNA binding activity. Involvedin mRNA export f...
////
ABCB6: Enables several functions, including ABC-type heme transporter activity;ATP binding activity; and ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular detoxificatio...
ADORA2B: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptorsignaling pathway and vasodilation. Predicted to act upstream of or withinseveral processes, i...
AGL: Enables 4-alpha-glucanotransferase activity and amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved i...
AGRN: Predicted to enable several functions, including chondroitin sulfatebinding activity; dystroglycan binding activi...
AK3: Enables nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase activity. Involved inribonucleot...
AK4: Enables adenylate kinase activity; nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity;and nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase...
AKR1A1: Enables L-glucuronate reductase activity and glucuronolactone reductaseactivity. Involved in daunor...
ALDH7A1: Enables betaine-aldehyde dehydrogenase activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Predicted to be involved...
ALDH9A1: Enables 4-trimethylammoniobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity; aminobutyraldehydedehydrogenase activity; and small molec...
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocess...
ALDOB: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; aldehyde-lyaseactivity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingNADH ...
ALG1: Enables chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol beta-mannosyltransferase activity.Involved in dol...
ANG: Enables several functions, including actin binding activity; heparinbinding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of protein kinase B activity; defense responseto other organism; and positive regulation of phospholipase activity. Actsupstream of or within angiog...
ANGPTL4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of apop...
ANKZF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. I...
ARPP19: Enables potassium channel regulator activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in G2/M t...
ARTN: Predicted to enable growth factor activity. Predicted to be involvedin peripheral nervous system development. Predicted to act upstream of or...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serinephosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upst...
B3GALT6: Enables galactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-galactosyltransferase activity.Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process and prot...
B3GAT1: Predicted to enable galactosylgalactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferaseactivity. Predicted to...
B3GAT3: Enables glucuronosyltransferase activity and protein phosphatase activatoractivity. Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process; positive regulationof catalytic activity; and positive regulation of ...
B3GNT3: Enables N-acetyllactosaminide beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferaseactivity. Involved in...
B4GALT1: Enables several functions, including UDP-galactosyltransferase activity;manganese ion binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved inoligosaccharide biosynthetic process...
B4GALT2: Predicted to enable galactosyltransferase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycosylation. Predicted to ...
B4GALT4: Enables N-acetyllactosamine synthase activity. Involved in keratan...
B4GALT7: Enables beta-N-acetylglucosaminylglycopeptide beta-1,4-galactosyltransferaseactivity; manganese ion binding activity; and xylosylprotein 4-beta-galactosyltransferaseactivity. Involved in sever...
BIK: Involved in positive regulation of protein-containing complex assembly;positive regulation of release of cytochrome c from mitochondria; ...
BPNT1: Predicted to enable 3''(2''),5''-bisphosphate nucleotidase activity.Predicted to be involv...
CACNA1H: Enables low voltage-gated calcium channel activity and scaffold proteinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion import;...
CAPN5: Predicted to enable calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.Predi...
CASP6: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to staurosporine; pos...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulationof intracellular signal transduction. Loc...
CDK1: Enables cyclin binding activity and protein kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of G2/M transition ofmitotic cell cycle; positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupledelectron transport; and protein phosphorylation. Located ...
CENPA: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including centromere complex assembly; establishment of mitoticspindle or...
CHPF: Enables N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferaseactivity and glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteogly...
CHPF2: Predicted to enable glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan4-beta-N-acetylga...
CHST1: Enables keratan sulfotransferase activity. Involved in galactose metabolicprocess and ...
CHST12: Enables chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase activity. Involved in chondr...
CHST2: Enables N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. Involvedin N-acetylgluc...
CHST4: Enables N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. Involvedin N-...
CHST6: Enables N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity and keratansulfotransferase activity. Involved in N-acetylglucosamine m...
CITED2: Enables several functions, including LBD domain binding activity;histone acetyltransferase binding activity; and transcription coactivatoractivity. Involved in several processes, including pos...
CLDN3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of macro...
CLDN9: Enables virus receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in bicellulartight junction assembly and calcium-independent cell-cell adhesion via plasmamembrane cell-...
CLN6: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity; protein homodimerizationactivity; and sulfatide binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcholesterol metabolic process; ganglioside ...
COG2: Involved in Golgi organization; glycosylation; and retrograde transport,vesicle recycling...
COL5A1: Enables heparin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factor bindingactivity; and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes,including collagen biosynthe...
COPB2: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Involved in intra-Golgive...
CTH: Enables carbon-sulfur lyase activity; identical protein binding activity;and pyridoxal phosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
CXCR4: Enables several functions, including C-X-C motif chemokine 12 receptoractivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including CXCL12-activatedCXCR4 signaling pathway; positive regulation of macrophage migration inhibitoryfactor signaling pathway; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or withincalcium-media...
CYB5A: Enables enzyme binding activity. Predicted to be involved in electrontransport chain and proton transmembrane transport. L...
DCN: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of autophagy.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulationof mitochondrial depolarization; positive regulation of mit...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defens...
DEPDC1: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Involved in negativere...
DLD: Enables dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to pyruvatedehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic processfrom pyruvate; branched-chain amino acid catabolic...
DPYSL4: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to be i...
DSC2: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Involved in bundleof His cell-Purkinje myocyte adhesion involved in cell communication; regulationof heart rate by ...
ECD: Enables histone acetyltransferase binding activity. Involved in ...
EFNA3: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in ephrin receptorsignaling pathway; negative regulation of angiogenesis; and pos...
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity;enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributesto nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulationof intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of protein metabolicprocess. Acts upstream of or within epidermal growth facto...
EGLN3: Enables peptidyl-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved...
ELF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity....
ENO1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; phosphopyruvate hydratase activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcanonical...
ENO2: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycolytic process. Located in cytosol and plasm...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in cell redox homeostasisand chaper...
EXT1: Enables UDP-glycosyltransferase activity and protein dimerization activity.Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process; heparan sulfate proteoglycanbiosynthetic proc...
EXT2: Enables glucuronosyltransferase activity and protein heterodimerizationactivity. Contributes to acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. Involvedin glycosa...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in ap...
FBP2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including...
FKBP4: Enables heat shock protein binding activity and peptidyl-prolyl cis-tran...
FUT8: Enables glycoprotein 6-alpha-L-fucosyltransferase activity. Involvedin GDP-L-fuc...
G6PD: Enables several functions, including glucose binding activity; glucose-6-phosphatedehydrogenase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved inseveral processes, including erythrocyte maturation; negative regulation ofprotein glutathionylation; and pento...
GAL3ST1: Enables galactosylceramide sulfotransferase activity. Involved inglycer...
GALE: Enables UDP-glucose 4-epimerase activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. In...
GALK1: Enables ATP binding activity; galactokinase activity; and galactosebinding activi...
GALK2: Enables galactokinase activity. Predicted to be involved in galac...
GAPDHS: Predicted to enable glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (NAD+)(phosphorylating) activit...
GCLC: Enables anion binding activity; glutamate-cysteine ligase activity;and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingalpha-amino acid metabolic proc...
GFPT1: Predicted to enable glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase (isomerizing)activity. Involved in UDP-N-acetylgl...
GFUS: Enables GDP-L-fucose synthase activity; GDP-mannose 3,5-epimerase activity;and identical protein binding activity. Involved in nucle...
GLCE: Enables calcium ion binding activity; heparosan-N-sulfate-glucuronate5-epimerase activity; and protein homodimeri...
GLRX: Enables glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Involved in positiveregulation o...
GMPPA: Predicted to enable nucleotidyltransferase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in biosynth...
GMPPB: Predicted to enable mannose-1-phosphate guanylyltransferase (GTP) activity.Involved in GDP-mannose biosynthetic process. Located in cytoplasm. Impl...
GNE: Predicted to enable N-acylmannosamine kinase activity and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine2-epimerase activity. Pred...
GNPDA1: Enables glucosamine-6-phosphate deaminase activity. Involved in UDP-N-acetylglucosaminebios...
GOT1: Enables L-aspartate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity. Involvedin aspartate catabolic process; cellular response to insulin stim...
GOT2: Enables L-aspartate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity. Involvedin aspartate catabolic process; f...
GPC1: Enables copper ion binding activity. Involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycancatabolic pr...
GPC3: Enables peptidyl-dipeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in positiveregulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway and regula...
GPC4: Involved in Wnt signaling pathway. Located in...
GPR87: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled purinergic nucleotide receptoractivity. P...
GUSB: Enables protein domain specific binding activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in glucuronoside c...
GYS1: Enables glycogen (starch) synthase activity; glycogen synthase activity,transferring glucose-1-phospha...
GYS2: Enables glycogen (starch) synthase activity. Involved in glycogen biosyntheticprocess. Predicted t...
HAX1: Enables interleukin-1 binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positiveregulation of pro...
HDLBP: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activi...
HK2: Enables glucokinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of autophagy of mitochondrionin response to ...
HMMR: Predicted to enable cargo receptor activity and hyaluronic acid bindingactivity. Predicted to be inv...
HOMER1: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in responseto calcium ion. Predicted to be located in neuron spi...
HS2ST1: Predicted to enable heparan sulfate 2-O-sulfotransferase activity.Predicted to be involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process,enzymatic modific...
HS6ST2: Predicted to enable heparan sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase activity.Predicted to be involved in heparan sulfate proteogly...
HSPA5: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to glucose starvation; positive regulation ofcell migration; and protein localization...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutaratemetabolic process and isocitra...
IDUA: Enables L-iduronidase activity. Involved in dermatan sulfate catabolicprocess. Acts upstream of or within heparin catabolic proce...
IER3: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis; apoptoticprocess; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to act upstreamof or within...
IGFBP3: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of smooth muscle cell migration; negative regulation ofsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and positive regulation of myoblast differentiation.Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cell ...
IL13RA1: Predicted to enable ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor bindingactivity; cytokine binding activity; and leukemia inhibitory factor receptoractivity. Predicted to contribute to oncostatin-M receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in cytokine-med...
IRS2: Predicted to enable several functions, including 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinaseregulator activity; insulin receptor binding activity; and molecular functionactivator activity. Involved in cellular response to insulin stim...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin RNA catabolic p...
KDELR3: Enables KDEL sequence binding activity. Involved in retrograde vesicle-mediatedtransport, Gol...
KIF20A: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in microtubule bundleformation; midbody abscission; and r...
KIF2A: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in mitotic spindle assemblyand regulation of cell migration. Located in cytoplasm; microtubule ...
LCT: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in cellobiose...
LDHA: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein bindingacti...
LDHC: Predicted to enable L-lactate dehydrogenase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in pyruvate catabolic process. Pred...
LHPP: Enables inorganic diphosphate phosphatase activity and protein homodimerizati...
LHX9: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto be involved in dorsal spinal cord interneuron anterior axon guidance; negativeregulation of...
MDH1: Predicted to enable L-malate dehydrogenase activity and NAD bindingactivity. Involved in NADH m...
MDH2: Enables L-malate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in aerobic respirationand ...
ME1: Enables several functions, including malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating)(NADP+) activity; metal ion binding activity; and oxaloac...
ME2: Enables malic enzyme activity. Involved in ...
MED24: Enables nuclear thyroid hormone receptor binding activity and transcriptioncoactivator...
MERTK: Predicted to enable transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinaseactivity. Involved in negative regulation of le...
MET: Enables identical protein binding activity; molecular function activatoractivity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including endothelial cell morphogenesis; negative regulation of signal transduction;and regulation of ...
MIF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;intramolecular oxidoreductase activity; and receptor ligand activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation;positive regulation ...
MIOX: Enables ferric iron binding activity and inositol oxygenase activit...
MPI: Predicted to enable mannose-6-phosphate isomerase activity. Predictedto be involved in GDP-mannose biosynthetic process and protein glycosylation....
MXI1: Contributes to DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA bind...
NANP: Enables N-acylneuraminate-9-phosphatase activity. Involv...
NASP: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in DNA replication-dependentchromatin assembl...
NDST3: Enables [heparan sulfate]-glucosamine N-sulfotransferase activity andheparan sulfate N-deacetylase activity. Involved in h...
NDUFV3: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial ATP synthesiscoupled...
NOL3: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; cysteine-typeendopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; and identicalpro...
NSDHL: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH groupof donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. Predicted to be involved in cholesterolmetabolic process. P...
NT5E: Enables several functions, including 5''-deoxynucleotidase activity;5''-nucleotidase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, includ...
P4HA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and procollagen-proline4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptidyl-prolin...
P4HA2: Enables procollagen-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in peptidyl...
PAM: Enables several functions, including peptidylamidoglycolate lyase activity;peptidylglycine monooxygenase activity; and zinc ion binding activ...
PAXIP1: Involved in several processes, including DNA damage response, signaltransduction by p53 c...
PC: Enables identical protein binding activity and pyruvate carboxylase activity.Involved in several processes, including nicotinamide...
PDK3: Enables ATP binding activity; protein serine/threonine kinase activity;and pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including hypoxia-i...
PFKFB1: Enables fructose-2,6-bisphosphate 2-phosphatase activity and identicalprotein binding act...
PFKP: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin canonical glycolysis; fructose 1,6-bisphosphate...
PGAM1: Enables 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate-dependent phosphoglycerate mutase activity;bisphosphoglycerate mutase activit...
PGAM2: Enables identical protein binding activity and phosphoglycerate mutaseactivity. Involved...
PGK1: Enables phosphoglycerate kinase activity and protein-disulfide reductase(NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular r...
PGLS: Enables 6-phosphogluconolactonase activity. In...
PGM2: Enables phosphoglucomutase activity and phosphopentomutase activity.Predicted to be in...
PHKA2: Predicted to enable phosphorylase kinase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in carbohydrate metabolic process; generation of precursor metabolite...
PKM: Enables phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor; proteinhomodimerization activity; and transcription coactivator acti...
PKP2: Enables several functions, including alpha-catenin binding activity;intermediate filament binding activity; and protein kinase C binding activity.Involved in several processes, including desmosome as...
PLOD1: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in epidermisdevelopment; peptidyl-l...
PLOD2: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in hydroxylysinebiosynthetic ...
PMM2: Predicted to enable phosphomannomutase activity. Predicted to be involvedin mannose metabolic process and pro...
POLR3K: Predicted to enable nucleic acid binding activity and zinc ion bindingactivity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed 5''-3'' RNA polymerase activity.Pr...
PPFIA4: Predicted to be involved in synapse organization. Predicted to belocated in synaps...
PPIA: Enables cyclosporin A binding activity; heparan sulfate binding activity;and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell adhesion molecule production; regulation of intracellular...
PPP2CB: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity.Involved in negative regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity.Acts upstream of or within negati...
PRPS1: Enables ATP binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; andribose phosphate diphosphokinase activity. Involved in nervous system developmentand purine-containing compound biosynt...
PSMC4: Predicted to enable proteasome-activating activity. Predicted to beinvolved in proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-d...
PYGB: Predicted to enable glycogen phosphorylase activity and pyridoxal phos...
PYGL: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;glucose binding activity; and glycogen phosphorylase act...
QSOX1: Enables FAD binding activity; flavin-linked sulfhydryl oxidase activity;and protein disulfide isomerase activit...
RARS1: Enables arginine-tRNA ligase activity. Involved in arginyl-tRNA aminoacylation.Located in cyt...
RBCK1: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protein sequestering activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved insev...
RPE: Enables D-ribulose-phosphate 3-epimerase activity; metal ion bindingactivity; and protein ...
RRAGD: Enables several functions, including GTPase binding activity; guanylribonucleotide binding activity; and protein heterodimerizati...
SAP30: Enables transcription corepressor activity. Involved in modulationby host of symbiont tran...
SDC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof exosomal secretion; positive regulation...
SDC2: Enables PDZ domain binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Predicted to be involved in cell migration; dendrite m...
SDC3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell mig...
SDHC: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin mitochondrial electron transport, succinate to ubiquinone. Predicted tobe located in mitochondrial in...
SLC16A3: Enables lactate:proton symporter activity and pyruvate transmembranetransporter activity. Involved in lactate transmembrane transport; prot...
SLC25A10: Predicted to enable C4-dicarboxylate transmembrane transporter activity;antiporter activity; and sulfur compound transmembrane transporter activity.Predicted t...
SLC25A13: Enables amino acid transmembrane transporter activity; calcium ionbinding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, in...
SLC35A3: Predicted to enable UDP-galactose transmembrane transporter acti...
SLC37A4: Enables glucose 6-phosphate:inorganic phosphate antiporter activity.Involved in glucose homeostasis; glucose-6-p...
SOD1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; superoxidedismutase activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process; negativeregulation of cholesterol biosynthetic process; and positive regulation ofsuperoxide anion generation. Located in several cellula...
SOX9: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory regionsequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein kinase A catalytic subunitbinding activity. Involved...
SPAG4: Predicted to enable protein-membrane adaptor activity. Predicted tobe involved in nuclear envelope organization. Predicted to be located in severa...
SRD5A3: Enables 3-oxo-5-alpha-steroid 4-dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductaseactivity, acting on the CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor...
STC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including chond...
STC2: Enables enzyme binding activity; heme binding activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulat...
STMN1: Enables tubulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingestablishment of skin barrier; negative regulation of signal transduction;and...
TALDO1: Enables transaldolase activity. Predicted to be involved in pentose-phosphateshu...
TFF3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin ...
TGFA: Enables epidermal growth factor receptor binding activity and growthfactor activity. Involved in several processes, including ERBB2-EGFR signalingpathway; positive regulation of epidermal growth factor-activated receptorac...
TGFBI: Enables collagen binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in angiogenesis and localizat...
TKTL1: Predicted to enable thiamine pyrophosphate binding activity and transketolasea...
TPBG: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signalingpathway. Predicted to act upstream of or...
TPI1: Enables protein homodimerization activity; triose-phosphate isomeraseactivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Invo...
TPST1: Enables protein homodimerization activity and protein-tyrosine sulfotransferasea...
TXN: Enables protein homodimerization activity and protein-disulfide reductase(NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cell redox homeostasis;negative regulation of ...
UGP2: Enables UTP:glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase activity and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in UDP-glucose...
VCAN: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase binding activity. Predictedto be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferrin...
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; pos...
VLDLR: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;very-low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in glyco...
XYLT2: Enables magnesium ion binding activity; manganese ion binding activity;and protein xylosyltransferase activity. Involved in...
ZNF292: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and DNA-binding transcriptionfactor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific. Predic...
////
ABCB6: Enables several functions, including ABC-type heme transporter activity;ATP binding activity; and ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular detoxification of cadmium ion; melanosome assembly; andporp...
ABCG2: Enables several functions, including ABC-type xenobiotic transporteractivity; protein homodimerization activity; and salt transmembrane transporteractivity. Involved in several processes, including renal urate salt excretion;riboflavin transport; and xenobiotic transport across blood-brain barrier.Locate...
ACKR1: Enables C-C chemokine binding activity. Predicted to be involved ininflammatory response and regulation of chemoki...
ACP5: Enables ferric iron binding activity and ferrous iron binding activity.Predicted to be involved in bone resorption. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including negative regulation of ...
ACSL6: Enables enzyme binding activity; long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in long-cha...
ADD1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and protein dimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including barbed-end actin filamentcapping; positive regulation of adherens junction organization; and positiveregulation of establi...
ADD2: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;protein dimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin filament bundle assembly; barbed-e...
ADIPOR1: Enables adipokinetic hormone receptor activity; adiponectin bindingactivity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including adiponectin-activated signaling pathway; negative regulation ofep...
AGPAT4: Predicted to enable 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity.Predicted to be involved in phosphatidic acid biosynthetic proce...
AHSP: Predicted to enable hemoglobin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin erythrocyte differ...
ALAD: Enables identical protein binding activity; porphobilinogen synthaseactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in heme biosynthetic process;negative regulation of proteasomal protein cat...
ALAS2: Enables 5-aminolevulinate synthase activity. Involved in response tohypoxia. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Implicated in cutaneousporphyr...
ALDH1L1: Enables formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in10-formylte...
ALDH6A1: Enables methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (acylating) activity.Involved in thymine ...
ANK1: Enables cytoskeletal anchor activity; enzyme binding activity; and spectrinbinding activity. Involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediatedtransport and protein localization to p...
AQP3: Enables glycerol channel activity; identical protein binding activity;and water channel activity. Involved in several processes, including glyceroltransmembrane transport; response to retinoic ...
ARHGEF12: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Acts upstreamof or wi...
ARL2BP: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in maintenanceof protein location in nucleus and positive regulation of tyrosine phosphorylationof STAT protein. Located ...
ASNS: Enables asparagine synthase (glutamine-hydrolyzing) activity. Involvedin cellular response to glucose starvation; negative regulation of apopto...
ATG4A: Enables Atg8-specific peptidase activity. Involved in autophagy; protein...
ATP6V0A1: Enables ATPase binding activity. Involved in regulation of macroautophagy.Located in several cellular components, i...
BACH1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific. Involved in DNA repair and regulation of...
BCAM: Enables laminin binding activity and laminin receptor activity. Involvedin cell-matrix ad...
BLVRA: Enables biliberdin reductase NAD+ activity. Involved in heme cataboli...
BLVRB: Enables biliverdin reductase (NAD(P)+) activity and riboflavin reductase(NADPH) activity. I...
BMP2K: Predicted to enable AP-2 adaptor complex binding activity; phosphataseregulator activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Predictedto be involved in several process...
BNIP3L: Enables lamin binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in defense response to virus; mitochondrial protein catabolic process;and regulation of apoptotic process. Acts upstream of...
BPGM: Predicted to enable bisphosphoglycerate mutase activity. Predicted tobe involved in carbohydrate derivative catabolic process and respiratory gaseousexchange by respiratory system. Predicted to act upstre...
BSG: Enables signaling receptor activity and virus receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including neutrophil chemotaxis; photoreceptor cellmaintenance; and positive regulation of cytokine production. Acts upstre...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved innegative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulationof translation; and neuron projection development. Acts upstream of or withinD...
BTRC: Enables beta-catenin binding activity; ubiquitin ligase activator activity;and ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptor activity. Contributes to ubiquitin-proteintransferase activity. Involved in several proces...
C3: Enables C5L2 anaphylatoxin chemotactic receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including opsonization; positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; and positive regulation of phagocytosis. Located in extracellularspace; plasma membrane; and serine-type endopeptidase complex. Implicatedin several diseases, incl...
CA1: Enables arylesterase activity and carbonate dehydratase activity. Predictedto b...
CA2: Enables arylesterase activity; carbonate dehydratase activity; and zincion binding activity. Involved in angiotensin-activated signaling pathwayand regulation of monoatomic anion transport. L...
CAST: Enables calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity.Involved in inhibition of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and negativeregulation of type B pancreatic cell apoptotic process. Located in cytosol;endoplasmic reticulum; and me...
CAT: Enables several functions, including catalase activity; heme bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including UV protection; cellular detoxification of hydrogen peroxide; andhydrogen peroxide catabolic process. Located in catalase complex and intracellularmembrane-bounded organelle. Part of protein-containing...
CCDC28A: ...
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclinD3-CDK4 complex and nucleoplasm. Part of ...
CDC27: Enables protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in protein K11-linkedubiquitination. Acts upstream of or within metaphase/anaphase ...
CDR2: Predicted to be lo...
CIR1: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity; protein kinase bindingactivity; and transcription corepressor activity. Acts upstream of or withinnegat...
CLCN3: Enables PDZ domain binding activity and volume-sensitive chloride channelactivity. Involved in chloride transmembrane transport and negative regulationof cell volume. Located in several cellula...
CLIC2: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved in negative regulationof ryanodine-sensitive calcium-release channel activity; positive regulationof binding activity; and regulation of release of sequestere...
CPOX: Enables coproporphyrinogen oxidase activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Predicted to be involved in protoporphyrinogen IX biosynthetic process.Predict...
CROCCP2: Predicted to be involved in centrosome cycle. Predicted to be locatedin...
CTNS: Enables L-cystine transmembrane transporter activity and solute:protonsymporter activity. Involved in several processes, including ATP metabolicprocess; glutathione metabolic process; and regulation of melanin biosynthetic...
CTSB: Enables collagen binding activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activity;and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to thyroid hormone stimulus; collagen catabolic process;and negative regulation of peptidase activity. Located in several cellularcomponents, including lysosome; peptidase in...
CTSE: Enables aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in antigen processingand presentat...
DAAM1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin Wnt signaling pathway and actin cytoskele...
DCAF10: Predicted to be involved in protein ubiquitination...
DCAF11: Predicted to be involved in proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-dependentprotein cataboli...
DCUN1D1: Enables cullin family protein binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of protein neddylation and re...
DMTN: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; protein self-association;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingactin filament bundle assembly; cellular response...
E2F2: Enables cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity.Contributes to DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence...
EIF2AK1: Enables eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2alpha kinase activity.Involved in HRI-medi...
ELL2: Predicted to enable cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity. Involved in snRNA transc...
ENDOD1: Predicted to enable endonuclease activity; metal ion binding activity;and nucleic acid binding activity. Predicted to be involve...
EPB41: Enables 1-phosphatidylinositol binding activity and phosphoproteinbinding activity. Involved in positive regulation of protein binding activity;positive regulation of protein localization to cell cortex; and re...
EPB42: Predicted to enable protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase activity.Predicted to be involved in peptide cross-linking. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including hemoglobin metabo...
EPOR: Enables erythropoietin receptor activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway;hemopoiesis; and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Predictedto act upstream of or within several processes, including brain development...
ERMAP: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predictedto be involved in T cell receptor signaling...
EZH1: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity; histone H3K27 methyltransferaseactivity; and transcription corepressor activity. Predicted to contributeto histone binding activity. Predicted to be involved in heterochromatin formation;histone H3-K27 trimethylation; ...
FBXO34: ...
FBXO7: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinheterodimerization activity; and ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptor activity.Involved in several processes, including mitochondrion organization; negativeregulation of hydrogen peroxide-induced neuron d...
FBXO9: Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolicprocess; protein ubiquitin...
FECH: Enables ferrochelatase activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in heme biosynthetic process and protoporphyrinogen IX metabolicprocess. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial...
FN3K: Enables protein-fructosamine 3-kinase activity. Involved in epithelialcell d...
FOXJ2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including ...
FOXO3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and mitochondrialtranscription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of regulatory T cell differentiation; regulation of macromoleculebiosynthetic process; and tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway.Acts upstream of...
FTCD: Enables glutamate formimidoyltransferase activity and microtubule bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in folic acid-containing compound metab...
GAPVD1: Enables GTPase activating protein binding activity and guanyl-nucleotideexchange factor acti...
GATA1: Enables several functions, including C2H2 zinc finger domain bindingactivity; DNA binding activity; and DNA-binding transcription activator activity,RNA polymerase II-specific. Involved in several processes, including myeloidcell differentiation; regulation of erythrocyte differentiation; and regulationof macromolecule biosynthetic process. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of prot...
GCLC: Enables anion binding activity; glutamate-cysteine ligase activity;and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingalpha-amino acid metabolic process; cell redox homeostasis; and glutathione...
GCLM: Enables glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit binding activity.Contributes to glutamate-cysteine ligase activity. Involved in several processes,including blood vessel diameter ma...
GDE1: Predicted to enable glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase activity;glycerophosphoinositol glycerophosphodiesterase activity; and lysophospholipaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in N-...
GLRX5: Predicted to enable 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity and metalion binding activity. Involved in [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; protein maturationby [2Fe-2S] cluster transfer; and protein matu...
GMPS: Enables GMP synthase activity. Acts upstream of or within GMP biosynthetic...
GYPA: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin viral entry into host cell. Predicted to act upstream of or...
GYPB: Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be...
GYPC: Located in cortical cytoskeleton and p...
GYPE: Predicted to be located in membrane. Pre...
H1-0: Enables chromatin DNA binding activity. Involved in heterochromatinformation and positive regulation of transcription regulatory region DNA bindingact...
H4C3: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. A structural constituentof chromatin. Involved in DNA replication-dependent chromatin assembly; negativere...
HAGH: Enables hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase activity. Involved in glu...
HBB: Enables hemoglobin binding activity and oxygen binding activity. Contributesto haptoglobin binding activity and peroxidase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including hydrogen peroxide catabolic process; nitric oxide transport;and oxygen transport. Lo...
HBBP1: ...
HBD: Predicted to enable several functions, including heme binding activity;hemoglobin alpha binding activity; and oxygen carrier activity. Predi...
HBQ1: Predicted to enable several functions, including heme binding activity;oxygen binding activity; and oxygen carrier activity. Predicted to contributeto haptoglobin binding activi...
HBZ: Predicted to enable several functions, including heme binding activity;oxygen binding activity; and oxygen carrier activity. Predicted ...
HDGF: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;heparin binding activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity.Involved in negative regulation of ...
HEBP1: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Predicted to be inv...
HMBS: Enables hydroxymethylbilane synthase activity. Involved in heme biosyntheticprocess. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in cyt...
HTATIP2: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in importinto nucleus and regulation of angiogenesis. Acts upstream of or within positiveregulation of...
HTRA2: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interferon-beta;positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway; and positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway in absence of ligand. Located in severa...
ICAM4: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell adhesion. Predicted...
IGSF3: Involved in lacrimal gland development. Located in ce...
ISCA1: Predicted to enable 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity. Predictedto be involved in iron-sulfur cluster assembly and protein maturation by iron-sulfurcluster t...
KAT2B: Enables several functions, including N-acetyltransferase activity;histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription coactivator activity.Involved in several processes, including peptidyl-lysine acetylation; regulationof RN...
KDM7A: Enables histone demethylase activity; methylated histone binding activity;and transition metal ion binding activity. Involved in histone H3-K27 ...
KEL: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in proteinprocessing. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includingintracellular monoatomic cati...
KHNYN: Predicted to enable RNA endonuclease activity and mRNA binding activity.Predicted to be involved in RNA phosphodiest...
KLF1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in erythrocyte differentiation and positive regulationof DNA-templated transcription. Located in...
KLF3: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto be invo...
LAMP2: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofprotein-containing complex assembly; protein catabolic process; and regulationof protein stability. Located in several cellular components, inclu...
LMO2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transcription coactivatoractivity. In...
LPIN2: Enables phosphatidate phosphatase activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including cellular response to insulin stimulus; fattyacid catabolic process; and trigl...
LRP10: Predicted to enable low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity.Predicted to act upstream of or within ...
MAP2K3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of hippo signaling; p38MAPK cascade; and positiveregulation of nitrogen compound metabolic proces...
MARCHF2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in positive regulationof lysosomal protein catabolic process; protein ubiquitination; and s...
MARCHF8: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in p...
MARK3: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity and tau-protein kinaseactivity. Involved in negative regulation of hippo signaling; peptidyl-serineautophosphorylation; and...
MBOAT2: Enables 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferase activity; 1-acylglycerophosphoethanolamineO-acyltransferase activity; and 1-acylglycerophosphoserine O-acyltransferaseactivity. Involved in phosphatidylcholine ac...
MFHAS1: Enables GTP binding activity; protein phosphatase 2A binding activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regula...
MGST3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein bindingactivity; and leukotriene-C4 synthase activity. Involved in leu...
MINPP1: Enables bisphosphoglycerate 3-phosphatase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in inositol phosphate metabolic process and polyphosphate metab...
MKRN1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in prote...
MOCOS: Enables Mo-molybdopterin cofactor sulfurase activity. Involved in molybdopterincofacto...
MOSPD1: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription byRNA polymerase II and positive regulation of transcription by R...
MPP1: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in regu...
MXI1: Contributes to DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulat...
MYL4: Enables actin filament binding activity and actin monomer binding activity.Involved in cardiac muscle contraction; positive regulation of ATP-depende...
NARF: Enables lamin binding activity. Located in l...
NCOA4: Predicted to enable transcription coactivator activity. Acts upstreamof or within protein targeting to lysosome. Located in ...
NEK7: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involvedin positive regu...
NFE2: Enables WW domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Contributes tocis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predictedto ac...
NFE2L1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity;and protein heterodimerization activity. ...
NNT: Enables NADP binding activity. Involved in reactive oxygen species metabolicproce...
NR3C1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andtranscription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to dexamethasone stimulus; cellular response to transforming growthfactor beta stimulus; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Locatedin cytosol and...
NUDT4: Enables diphosphoinositol-polyphosphate diphosphatase activity. Predictedto be involved in diphosp...
OPTN: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity; and small GTPasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including Golgi to plasmamembrane protein transport; negative regulation of receptor recycling; andparkin-mediated stimulat...
OSBP2: Enables cholesterol binding activity. Predicted to be involved in steroltransport. Predicted to act upstream of or within spermatid development. Predictedto b...
P4HA2: Enables procollagen-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in peptidyl-proline hydroxylation...
PC: Enables identical protein binding activity and pyruvate carboxylase activity.Involved in several processes, including nicotinamide nucleotide metabolicprocess; p...
PDZK1IP1: Located in extra...
PGLS: Enables 6-phosphogluconolactonase activity. Involved in pe...
PICALM: Enables several functions, including clathrin heavy chain bindingactivity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; andsmall GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negativeregulation of protein localization; receptor-mediated endo...
PIGQ: Predicted to contribute to phosphatidylinositol N-acetylglucosaminyltransferaseactivity. Involved in GPI anchor biosynthetic process. Part of g...
PPOX: Enables oxygen-dependent protoporphyrinogen oxidase activity. Involvedin heme biosynth...
PPP2R5B: Predicted to enable protein phosphatase activator activity. Predictedto be involved in protein dephosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including positive regulation of cellular componentorganization; r...
PRDX2: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in defense responseto tumor cell; regulation of apoptotic process; and removal...
PSMD9: Predicted to enable bHLH transcription factor binding activity andtranscription coactivator activity. Involved i...
RAD23A: Enables kinase binding activity; polyubiquitin modification-dependentprotein binding activity; and ubiquitin-specific protease binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of proteasomalubiquitin-dependent protein...
RANBP10: Predicted to enable beta-tubulin binding activity; guanyl-nucleotideexchange factor activity; and small GTPase binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in cell surface rec...
RAP1GAP: Enables GTPase activator activity; protein homodimerization activity;and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of microvillusassembly and positive regulation of GTPase...
RBM38: Enables mRNA 3''-UTR binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response,signal transduction by p53 class mediator; negative...
RBM5: Enables mRNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of apoptoticprocess; regulation of alt...
RCL1: Predicted to enable RNA endonuclease activity. Predicted to be involvedin endonucleolytic cleavage of tricistronic rRNA transcript (SSU-rRNA, 5.8SrRNA, LSU-rRNA). Predicted to act upstream of or within endonucleolytic cleavagein 5''-ETS of tricistronic rRNA transcript (...
RHAG: Enables ammonium transmembrane transporter activity; ankyrin bindingactivity; and leak channel activity. Involved in ammonium transmembrane transport;carbon dioxide transport; a...
RHCE: Predicted to enable ammonium transmembrane transporter activity. Predictedto be involved in ammonium homeostasis and ...
RHD: Predicted to enable ammonium transmembrane transporter activity. Predictedto be involved in ammonium homeostasis and ammonium transmembrane transport.Predicted to a...
RIOK3: Enables caspase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to organiccyclic...
RNF123: Predicted to enable ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Predictedto be involved in pro...
RNF19A: Predicted to enable ubiquitin conjugating enzyme binding activityand ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in positiveregulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; proteinpolyubiquitination; and ubiquit...
SDCBP: Enables several functions, including frizzled binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process;po...
SEC14L1: Enables RIG-I binding activity. Involved in choline transport andnegative regulation of RIG-...
SELENBP1: Enables methanethiol oxidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin protein transport. Predicted to act ups...
SIDT2: Predicted to enable several functions, including AP-1 adaptor complexbinding activity; AP-2 adaptor complex binding activity;...
SLC10A3: Predicted to enable bile acid:sodium symporter activity. Predictedto be involved in bile acid and bile salt tran...
SLC11A2: Enables several functions, including lead ion transmembrane transporteractivity; retromer complex binding activity; and transition metal ion transmembranetransporter activity. Involved in several processes, including activationof cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; metalion transport; and multicellular organi...
SLC22A4: Enables PDZ domain binding activity; amino acid transmembrane transporteractivity; and carnitine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in aminoacid import across plasma membrane; quaternary...
SLC25A37: Predicted to enable ferrous iron transmembrane transporter activity.Predicted to be involved in iron import into the mitochondrion and positive...
SLC25A38: Enables glycine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved inerythrocyte differentiation and glycine import into mitochondrion. Predictedto be located in...
SLC2A1: Enables several functions, including D-glucose transmembrane transporteractivity; dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in glucose import across plasma membrane;long-chain fatty acid import across plasma membrane; and protein-containingcomplex assembly. Acts upstream of or within central nervous system developmentand transport across blood-...
SLC30A1: Predicted to enable calcium channel inhibitor activity; zinc iontransmembrane transporter activity; and zinc:proton antiporter activity. Involvedin defense response to ...
SLC30A10: Predicted to enable zinc ion transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to angiotensin;negative regulation of cellul...
SLC4A1: Enables several functions, including ankyrin binding activity; bicarbonatetransmembrane transporter activity; and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in bicarbonate transport and chloride transmembrane transport. Locatedin basolateral plasma membrane a...
SLC66A2: Predicted to be involved in phospholipid translocation and retrogradetransport, endosome to Golgi. Predic...
SLC6A8: Enables creatine:sodium symporter activity. Involved in creatine transmembranetransport. Located in ...
SLC6A9: Enables glycine:sodium symporter activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including glycine import across plasma membrane; positiveregulation of biosynthetic process; and sodium ion ...
SLC7A11: Predicted to enable L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in response t...
SMOX: Enables polyamine oxidase activity. Involved in spermine catabolic...
SNCA: Enables several functions, including Hsp70 protein binding activity;cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and metal ion binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of transport; positiveregulation of transport; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Locatedin several cellular components, including growth cone; inclusion body; andperinuclear region of cytop...
SPTA1: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in actin cytoskeleton organization. Predicted to act upstream ofor within several processes, including lymphocyte homeostasis; porphyrin-co...
SPTB: Enables actin filament binding activity and ankyrin binding activity.Involved in modification of postsynaptic actin cytoskeleton. Located in cellsurface; cytosol; and spectrin-associated cytoskelet...
SYNJ1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate phosphatase activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate5-phosphatase activity; and phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate phosphatase activity.Involved in several processes, including phosphatidylinosito...
TAL1: Enables several functions, including E-box binding activity; chromatinbinding activity; and histone deacetylase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including myeloid cell differentiation; positive regulation o...
TCEA1: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity; translation elongation factoractivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in DNA-templatedtranscription and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polyme...
TENT5C: Enables poly(A) RNA polymerase activity. Involved in mRNA stabilizationand negative re...
TFDP2: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Contributes to DNA-bindingtranscription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymeraseII transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity.Inv...
TFRC: Enables several functions, including double-stranded RNA binding activity;protein homodimerization activity; and transferrin receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of mitochondrial fusion;positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; and positiveregulation of lymphocyte activation. Acts upstream of or within cellular respo...
TMCC2: Involved in amyloid precursor protein metaboli...
TMEM9B: Involved in positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling.Pr...
TNRC6B: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in RNA-mediated gene silencing;positive regulation of nuclear-transcribed mRNA catabolic process, deadenylation-dependentdecay; and positive regulation of nuclear-transcribed mRNA poly(A) tail shortening.Acts up...
TNS1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in fibroblastmigration. Predicted t...
TOP1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; DNA bindingactivity; and DNA topoisomerase type I (single strand cut, ATP-independent)activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA topological ...
TRAK2: Predicted to enable GABA receptor binding activity and myosin bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including mitochondriondistribution; organelle transport along micro...
TRIM10: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted tobe involved in innate immune response; protein ubiquitination; and reg...
TRIM58: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted tobe involved in innate immune respon...
TSPAN5: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in positive regulation ofNotch signaling pathway; p...
TSPO2: Enables 5-aminolevulinic acid transmembrane transporter activity. Involvedin 5-aminolevulin...
TYR: Enables copper ion binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and tyrosinase activity. Involved in melanin biosynthetic process and responseto blue light. Located in intracellular membrane-b...
UBAC1: Predicted to be involved in protein ubiquitination. Loc...
UCP2: Predicted to enable oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler activity. Involvedin response to hypoxia. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in carotid arterydis...
UROD: Enables uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity. Involved in porphyrin-containingcompound catabolic process. Located in c...
UROS: Enables uroporphyrinogen-III synthase activity. Involved in heme biosyntheticprocess and uroporphyrinogen ...
USP15: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;peptidase activity; and ubiquitin modification-dependent histone binding activity.Involved in protein deubiquitination; regulation o...
VEZF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding act...
XK: Enables protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin amino acid transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes,including intracellular monoatomic cation homeostas...
XPO7: Enables nuclear export signal receptor activity. Involved in proteinexpor...
YPEL5: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be involve...
////
ACKR3: Enables C-X-C chemokine binding activity; C-X-C chemokine receptoractivity; and scavenger receptor activity. Involved in several processes,includin...
ADM: Enables adrenomedullin receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; defenseresponse to other organism; and regulation of blood circulation. Loca...
ADORA2B: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptorsignaling pathway and vasodilation. Predicted to act upstream of or withinseveral processes, i...
AK4: Enables adenylate kinase activity; nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity;and nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase...
AKAP12: Enables adenylate cyclase binding activity. Involved in adenylatecyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathwa...
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocess...
ALDOB: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; aldehyde-lyaseactivity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingNADH ...
ALDOC: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity. Involved in epitheli...
AMPD3: Predicted to enable AMP deaminase activity. Predicted to be involvedin erythrocyte homeostasis and purine ribonucleotide metabolic process. Predictedto act up...
ANGPTL4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of apop...
ANKZF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. I...
ANXA2: Enables several functions, including S100 protein binding activity;enzyme inhibitor activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including positive regulation of low-density lipoproteinparticle clearance; regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulati...
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific;RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulationof transcription by RNA...
ATP7A: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; P-type monovalentcopper transporter activity; and copper-dependent protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including copper ion export; positive regu...
B3GALT6: Enables galactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-galactosyltransferase activity.Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process and prot...
B4GALNT2: Enables acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. Involved in UDP-N-acetylgalac...
BCAN: Predicted to enable carbohydrate binding activity and hyaluronic acidbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in central nervous system developmentand skeletal system development. Predicted to act u...
BCL2: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including B cell receptor signaling pathway; negative regulationof apoptotic process; and positive regulation of B cell proliferation. Actsupstream of or within several processes, including B cell proliferation; apoptoticsignaling pathway; and negative...
BGN: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringcompression resistance. Predicted to act upstream of or within articular cartilagedevelopment; bone developm...
BHLHE40: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and proteindimeriz...
BNIP3L: Enables lamin binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in defense response to virus; mitochondrial protein catabolic process;and regulatio...
BRS3: Predicted to enable neuropeptide receptor activity. Predicted to beinvolved in G p...
BTG1: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in positive regulation ofangiogenesis; positive regulation of endothelial cell differentiation; andpositive regulation ...
CA12: Predicted to enable carbonate dehydratase activity. Involved in chlorideion homeostasis. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted ...
CASP6: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cellular response to staurosporine; pos...
CAV1: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; inwardrectifier potassium channel inhibitor activity; and transmembrane transporterbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including endocytosis; regulationof protein metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Actsupstream of or within response to estrogen and response to proges...
CAVIN1: Enables identical protein binding activity and rRNA primary transcriptbinding activity. Involved in termination of RNA polymerase I transcrip...
CAVIN3: Predicted to enable protein kinase C binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in circadian regulation of gene expression. Predicted to act up...
CCN1: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regu...
CCN2: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of MAPK cascade; ...
CCN5: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity.Predicted to be involved in cell adhesion...
CCNG2: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transitionand regulation of cyclin-dependent protein ser...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CDKN1B: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; cyclin-dependentprotein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of nitrogen compoundmetabolic process; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth musclecell proliferation; and regulation of cell cycle G1...
CDKN1C: Enables molecular function inhibitor activity and protein kinase inhibitoractivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofcyclin-dependent protein kinase activity; po...
CHST2: Enables N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. Involvedin N-acetylgluc...
CHST3: Enables chondroitin 6-sulfotransferase activity. Involved in chondroitinsulfate biosynthetic process. Predicted to be lo...
CITED2: Enables several functions, including LBD domain binding activity;histone acetyltransferase binding activity; and transcription coactivatoractivity. Involved in several processes, including pos...
COL5A1: Enables heparin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factor bindingactivity; and proteoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes,including collagen biosynthe...
CP: Enables protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin iron ion transport. Located in extracel...
CSRP2: Predicted to enable actinin binding activity. Predicted to be a structuralconstitue...
CXCR4: Enables several functions, including C-X-C motif chemokine 12 receptoractivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including CXCL12-activatedCXCR4 signaling pathway; positive regulation of macrophage migration inhibitoryfactor signaling pathway; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or withincalcium-media...
DCN: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of autophagy.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including positive regulationof mitochondrial depolarization; positive regulation of mit...
DDIT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding acti...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defens...
DPYSL4: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to be i...
DTNA: Predicted to enable phosphatase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin synaptic signaling. Located in cell...
DUSP1: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threoninephosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulationof MAPK cascade; negative regulati...
EDN2: Enables endothelin B receptor binding activity and hormone activity.Involved in several processes, including leukocyte chemotaxis; second-mes...
EFNA1: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including ephrin receptor signaling pathway; ...
EFNA3: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in ephrin receptorsignaling pathway; negative regulation of angiogenesis; and pos...
EGFR: Enables several functions, including actin filament binding activity;enzyme binding activity; and epidermal growth factor receptor activity. Contributesto nitric-oxide synthase regulator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process; regulationof intracellular signal transduction; and regulation of protein metabolicprocess. Acts upstream of or within epidermal growth facto...
ENO1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; phosphopyruvate hydratase activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcanonical...
ENO2: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. Predicted tobe involved in glycolytic process. Located in cytosol and plasm...
ENO3: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. ...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in cell redox homeostasisand chaper...
ERRFI1: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof epiderm...
ETS1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; nuclear receptor coactivator activity;and transcription corepressor binding activ...
EXT1: Enables UDP-glycosyltransferase activity and protein dimerization activity.Involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthetic process; heparan sulfate proteoglycanbiosynthetic proc...
F3: Enables phospholipid binding activity and protease binding activity. Contributesto serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingactivation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process;activation of plasma proteins involved in acute inflammatory response; andpositive regulation of signal transduction. Acts ups...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase activity involved in ap...
FBP1: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; fructose1,6-bisphosphate 1-phosphatase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Invo...
FOS: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; R-SMAD binding activity; and RNA polymeraseII transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ca...
FOSL2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding acti...
FOXO3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and mitochondrialtranscription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of regulatory T cell differentiation; regulation of macromoleculebiosynthet...
GAA: Enables alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Involved in several processes,including glycogen cat...
GALK1: Enables ATP binding activity; galactokinase activity; and galactosebinding activi...
GAPDH: Enables aspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity; disordereddomain specific binding activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism;negative regulation of...
GAPDHS: Predicted to enable glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (NAD+)(phosphorylating) activit...
GBE1: Enables 1,4-alpha-glucan branching enzyme activity. Involved in glycogenbiosynth...
GCK: Enables ATP binding activity; glucokinase activity; and glucose bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including detection of ...
GCNT2: Enables N-acetyllactosaminide beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including maintenance of lens transp...
GLRX: Enables glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Involved in positiveregulation o...
GPC1: Enables copper ion binding activity. Involved in heparan sulfate proteoglycancatabolic pr...
GPC3: Enables peptidyl-dipeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in positiveregulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway and regula...
GPC4: Involved in Wnt signaling pathway. Located in...
GPI: Enables glucose-6-phosphate isomerase activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in glucose 6-phosphate metabolic process;positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and positive ...
GRHPR: Enables NADPH binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and protein...
GYS1: Enables glycogen (starch) synthase activity; glycogen synthase activity,transferring glucose-1-phospha...
HAS1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in cellular responseto platelet-d...
HDLBP: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activi...
HEXA: Enables acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity; beta-N-acetylhexosaminidaseactivity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involv...
HK1: Enables hexokinase activity and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involvedin carbohydrate phosphorylation; establishment of protein localization tomitochondrion; and m...
HK2: Enables glucokinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of autophagy of mitochondrionin response to ...
HMOX1: Enables several functions, including heme binding activity; heme oxygenase(decyclizing) activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved inseveral processes, including porphyrin-containing compound catabolic process;positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involvedin sprouting angiogenesi...
HOXB9: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA b...
HS3ST1: Enables [heparan sulfate]-glucosamine 3-sulfotransferase 1 activity.Involved in gl...
HSPA5: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to glucose starvation; positive regulation ofcell migration; and protein localization...
IDS: Enables calcium ion binding activity and iduronate-2-sulfatase activity.I...
IER3: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis; apoptoticprocess; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to act upstreamof or within...
IGFBP1: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and insulin-likegrowth factor II binding activity. Predicted to b...
IGFBP3: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of smooth muscle cell migration; negative regulation ofsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and positive regulation of myoblast differentiation.Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cell ...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto lipopolysaccharide; positive regulatio...
ILVBL: Predicted to enable acetolactate synthase activity and flavin adeninedinu...
INHA: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in hemoglobinbiosynthetic process; regulation of cell cycle; and regulation of cell populationpro...
IRS2: Predicted to enable several functions, including 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinaseregulator activity; insulin receptor binding activity; and molecular functionactivator activity. Involved in cellular response to insulin stim...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin RNA catabolic p...
JMJD6: Enables several functions, including 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenaseactivity; P-TEFb complex binding activity; and transcription regulator activat...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMADbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationby host of viral transcript...
KDELR3: Enables KDEL sequence binding activity. Involved in retrograde vesicle-mediatedtransport, Gol...
KDM3A: Enables histone H3K9me/H3K9me2 demethylase activity; iron ion bindingactivity; and nuclear androgen receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including androgen rec...
KIF5A: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including axo-den...
KLF6: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-speci...
KLF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in se...
KLHL24: Involved in intermediate filament organization and protein autoubiquitination.Located in a...
LALBA: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved inseveral processes, including apoptotic process; defense response to bacte...
LARGE1: Enables glucuronosyltransferase activity; manganese ion binding activity;and xylosyltransferase activity. Involved in pro...
LDHA: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein bindingacti...
LDHC: Predicted to enable L-lactate dehydrogenase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in pyruvate catabolic process. Pred...
LOX: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity; protein-lysine6-oxidase activity; and small molecule binding activity. Involved i...
LXN: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predictedto be involved in inflammatory response and negative regulation of endopepti...
MAFF: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA b...
MAP3K1: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in cellular response to mechanical stimulus. Predictedto be located in cytosol. Pred...
MIF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;intramolecular oxidoreductase activity; and receptor ligand activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation;positive regulation ...
MT1E: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cellul...
MT2A: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to erythropoietin; cellular response to interleukin-3; and cellularresp...
MXI1: Contributes to DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA bind...
MYH9: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto actin filament binding activity and microfilament motor activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; myeloid celldifferentiation; and negative regul...
NAGK: Enables N-acetylglucosamine kinase activity. Predicted to be involvedin N-acetylmannosamine metabolic proce...
NCAN: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity; carbohydrate bindingactivity; and hyaluronic acid binding activity. Predicted to be involved inseveral processes, including modulation of chemical synaptic transmission;regulation ...
NDRG1: Enables cadherin binding activity; small GTPase binding activity; andtubulin binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response, signal transductionby p53 ...
NDST1: Enables [heparan sulfate]-glucosamine N-sulfotransferase activity andheparan sulfate N-deacetylase activity. Predicted to be involved in heparansulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process, polysaccharide chain biosynthe...
NDST2: Predicted to enable [heparan sulfate]-glucosamine N-sulfotransferaseactivity and deacetylase activity. Predicted to be involved in heparan sulfateproteoglycan biosynthetic process, polysacchari...
NEDD4L: Enables potassium channel inhibitor activity; sodium channel inhibitoractivity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulatio...
NFIL3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding acti...
NOCT: Enables NADP phosphatase activity and NADPH phosphat...
NR3C1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andtranscription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to dexamethasone stimulus; cellular response to transforming growthfactor beta st...
P4HA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and procollagen-proline4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptidyl-prolin...
P4HA2: Enables procollagen-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in peptidyl...
PAM: Enables several functions, including peptidylamidoglycolate lyase activity;peptidylglycine monooxygenase activity; and zinc ion binding activ...
PCK1: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; metal ionbinding activity; and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (GTP) activity. Involvedin sev...
PDGFB: Enables several functions, including platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; protein dimerization activity; and receptor ligand activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration;positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and positive regulationof macromolecule meta...
PDK1: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha signalingpathway; intrinsic apopto...
PDK3: Enables ATP binding activity; protein serine/threonine kinase activity;and pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity. Involvedin several processes, including hypoxia-i...
PFKFB3: Enables 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity. Predicted to ...
PFKL: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity;anion binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in severalprocess...
PFKP: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin canonical glycolysis; fructose 1,6-bisphosphate...
PGAM2: Enables identical protein binding activity and phosphoglycerate mutaseactivity. Involved...
PGF: Enables growth factor activity. Involved in positive regulation of cellpopulation proliferation. Predicted to be located in extracellular region.Predicted to be active in extracellular space. Implicated in several diseases...
PGK1: Enables phosphoglycerate kinase activity and protein-disulfide reductase(NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular r...
PGM1: Enables magnesium ion binding activity and phosphoglucomutase activity.Involved in glucose met...
PGM2: Enables phosphoglucomutase activity and phosphopentomutase activity.Predicted to be in...
PHKG1: Predicted to enable enzyme activator activity. Predicted to be involvedin glycogen biosynt...
PIM1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; manganeseion binding activity; and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, ...
PKLR: Predicted to enable pyruvate kinase activity. Predicted to be involvedin cellular response to insulin stimulus and glycolytic process. Predictedto act upstrea...
PKP1: Enables lamin binding activity. Involved in intermediate filament bundleassembly and negative regulation...
PLAC8: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis and positive regulationof transcription by R...
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation ofepidermal growth factor receptor signaling pat...
PLIN2: Involved in cellular response to glucose starvatio...
PNRC1: Predicted to ...
PPARGC1A: Enables several functions, including nuclear receptor binding activity;nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including gluconeogenesis; negativeregulation of neuron death; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription.Acts upstream of o...
PPFIA4: Predicted to be involved in synapse organization. Predicted to belocated in synaps...
PPP1R15A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein phosphatase1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localizationto endoplasmic reticulum; regulati...
PPP1R3C: Predicted to enable several functions, including [phosphorylase]phosphatase activity; glycogen binding activity; and protein phosphatase 1binding...
PRDX5: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity;and peroxidase activity. Involved in sever...
PRKCA: Enables enzyme binding activity; histone H3T6 kinase activity; andprotein kinase C activity. Involved in several processes, including desmosomeassembly; positive regulation of lipopolysaccharide-mediated signaling pathway;...
PYGM: Enables glycogen phosphorylase activity. Involved in glycogen c...
RBPJ: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity; and RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcriptionfact...
RORA: Enables several functions, including ligand-activated transcriptionfactor activity; oxysterol binding activity; and transcription coregulatorbinding activity. Involved in several proce...
RRAGD: Enables several functions, including GTPase binding activity; guanylribonucleotide binding activity; and protein heterodimerizati...
S100A4: Enables RAGE receptor binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in positive regu...
SAP30: Enables transcription corepressor activity. Involved in modulationby host of symbiont tran...
SCARB1: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein A-I binding activity;high-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; and lipopolysac...
SDC2: Enables PDZ domain binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Predicted to be involved in cell migration; dendrite m...
SDC3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell mig...
SDC4: Enables identical protein binding activity and thrombospondin receptoractivity. Involved in negative regulation of T cell pro...
SELENBP1: Enables methanethiol oxidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin protein transport....
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis;and response to bacterium. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix;...
SIAH2: Predicted to enable ubiquitin conjugating enzyme binding activity andubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcanonical Wnt signaling pa...
SLC25A1: Enables citrate secondary active transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in mitochondrial citrate transmembrane trans...
SLC2A1: Enables several functions, including D-glucose transmembrane transporteractivity; dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in glucose import across plasma membrane;long-chain fatty acid import across plasma membrane; and protein-containingcomplex assembly. Acts u...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity; and hexose transmembrane transporter activity. Involvedin galactose tra...
SLC2A5: Enables fructose transmembrane transporter activity. I...
SLC37A4: Enables glucose 6-phosphate:inorganic phosphate antiporter activity.Involved in glucose homeostasis; glucose-6-p...
SLC6A6: Enables alanine transmembrane transporter activity; amino acid:sodiumsymporter activity; and taurine:sodium symporter activity. Involved in alaninetrans...
SRPX: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in phagolysosome assembly. Predicted to act upstream of orwithin several processes, incl...
STBD1: Enables enzyme binding activity and glycogen binding activity. Involvedin glyc...
STC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including chond...
STC2: Enables enzyme binding activity; heme binding activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulat...
SULT2B1: Enables nucleic acid binding activity; steroid binding activity;and steroid sulfotransferase activity. Involved in several processes, including3''-phosphoadenosine 5''-ph...
TES: Enables zinc ion binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofcell popu...
TGFB3: Enables identical protein binding activity; transforming growth factorbeta binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including face morphogenesis; positiveregulation of biosynthetic process; and positive regulatio...
TGFBI: Enables collagen binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in angiogenesis and localizat...
TGM2: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; N-acyltransferaseactivity; and protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular...
TIPARP: Enables NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity; NAD+- protein-cysteineADP-ribosyltransferase activity; and cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding acti...
TKTL1: Predicted to enable thiamine pyrophosphate binding activity and transketolasea...
TMEM45A: Predicted to b...
TNFAIP3: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein modificationby small protein ...
TPBG: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signalingpathway. Predicted to act upstream of or...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity...
TPI1: Enables protein homodimerization activity; triose-phosphate isomeraseactivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Invo...
TPST2: Enables protein homodimerization activity and protein-tyrosine sulf...
UGP2: Enables UTP:glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase activity and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in UDP-glucose...
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation ofmacromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; pos...
VHL: Enables several functions, including transcription corepressor activity;transcription elongation factor activity; and ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptoractivity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid fibril formation;negative re...
VLDLR: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;very-low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in glyco...
WSB1: Predicted to enable kinase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity.Predicted to be involve...
XPNPEP1: Enables manganese ion binding activity; metalloaminopeptidase activity;and p...
ZFP36: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity;heat shock protein binding activity; and mRNA 3''-UTR AU-rich region bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response...
ZNF292: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity and DNA-binding transcriptionfactor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific. Predic...
////
ABCA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzyme bindingactivity; and floppase activity. Involved in several processes, includingcholesterol homeostasis; lipid transpo...
ABI1: Enables SH3 domain binding activity and signaling adaptor activity.Acts upstream o...
ACVR1B: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; activinreceptor activity, type I; and inhibin binding activity. Contributes to activinbinding activity; activin receptor activity; and growth factor binding...
ACVR2A: Enables coreceptor activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Contributes to activin binding activity and activin receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of ce...
ADGRE1: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in a...
ADM: Enables adrenomedullin receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; defenseresponse to other organism...
ADORA2B: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptorsignaling pathway and vasodilation. Predicted to...
ADRM1: Enables several functions, including endopeptidase activator activity;molecular function inhibitor ...
AHR: Enables several functions, including Hsp90 protein binding activity;general transcription initiation factor binding activity; and protein heterodimerizationactivity. Contributes to nuclea...
APLNR: Predicted to enable apelin receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulat...
AQP9: Enables channel activity and nucleobase transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in several proc...
ATP2A2: Enables several functions, including P-type calcium transporter activityinvolved in regulation of cardiac muscle cell membrane potential; S100 proteinbinding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding act...
ATP2B1: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and P-type calcium transporter activityinvolved in regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration.Involved in several pr...
ATP2C1: Enables ATP binding activity; P-type ion transporter activity; andmetal ion binding activity. Involved in several process...
AXL: Enables phosphatidylserine binding activity; protein tyrosine kinaseactivity; and virus receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includin...
BDKRB1: Enables bradykinin receptor activity. Predicted to be involved inG protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; cyclooxygenase pathway; andsmooth muscle relaxatio...
BEST1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Contributes to chloridechannel activity. Involved in transepithelial chloride transport. Acts upstr...
BST2: Enables metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of intracellular transp...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved innegative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulation...
C3AR1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and complement componentC3a receptor activity. Involved in complement receptor mediated signalingpathway and...
C5AR1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and complement componentC5a receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including complementcompone...
CALCRL: Enables adrenomedullin binding activity; adrenomedullin receptor activity;and calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor activity. Involved in severalpro...
CCL17: Predicted to enable CCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpepti...
CCL2: Predicted to enable CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokinestimulus; leukocyte chemotaxis; and regulation of apoptoti...
CCL20: Enables CCR6 chemokine receptor binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide; calcium-mediated signaling...
CCL22: Predicted to enable CCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antim...
CCL24: Enables CCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; po...
CCL5: Enables several functions, including enzyme activator activity; phosphatidylinositolphospholipase C activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positiveregulation of cell migratio...
CCL7: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; positive regulationof natural killer cell ...
CCR7: Enables C-C chemokine binding activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity.Involved in cellular response...
CCRL2: Enables CCR chemokine receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin se...
CD14: Enables lipopeptide binding activity; lipopolysaccharide binding activity;and lipoteichoic acid binding activity. Involved in cellular response to bacteriallipopeptide; positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling; and positiveregulation of interleukin-8 production. Acts upstream of or wi...
CD40: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulation of intracellularsignal transduction; and regulation of DNA-templated transcri...
CD48: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and signaling receptor...
CD55: Enables lipid binding activity and virus receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-betaT cell proliferation; positive regulation of T c...
CD69: Enables identical protein binding activity. Pred...
CD70: Enables cytokine activity and protease binding activity. Involved inseveral processe...
CD82: Located in plasma membrane. Biomarker of breast ca...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regul...
CHST2: Enables N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. Involved...
CLEC5A: Enables virus receptor activity. In...
CMKLR1: Enables adipokinetic hormone binding activity and adipokinetic hormonereceptor activity. Involved in ...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabo...
CSF3: Enables cytokine activity and enzyme binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of cytoskeleton organization; positiveregulation of intracellular signal transduction; and...
CSF3R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity and granulocyte colony-stimulatingfactor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signalingpathway. Predicted to act upstream of or within neutrophil chemotaxis ...
CX3CL1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including regulation of cell migration; regulation of gene expression; ...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regu...
CXCL11: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cellchemot...
CXCL6: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to lipopolysa...
CXCL8: Enables chemokine activity; heparin binding activity; and interleukin-8receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to cytokine stimulus; induction of positive chemotaxis; and neutrophilchemotaxis. Acts upstream of or within negativ...
CXCL9: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including antimicrobial humoral immune responsemediated by antimicrobial peptide;...
CXCR6: Predicted to enable C-C chemokine binding activity; C-C chemokine receptoractivity; and C-X-C chemokine binding activity. Predicted to be involved inseveral processes, including c...
CYBB: Enables flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity; heme binding activity;and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes to electron transferactivity an...
DCBLD2: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Inv...
EBI3: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in leptin-mediatedsignaling pathway...
EDN1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including intracellular signal transduction; regulation of macromolecule biosyntheticprocess; and vascular associated sm...
EIF2AK2: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; eukaryotic translationinitiation factor 2alpha kinase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several proces...
EMP3: Involved in bleb assem...
EREG: Enables receptor ligand activity and transmembrane receptor proteintyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processe...
F3: Enables phospholipid binding activity and protease binding activity. Contributesto serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, includingactivation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process;activation of plasma proteins involved in acute infla...
FFAR2: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including...
FPR1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity and N-formyl peptidereceptor activit...
FZD5: Enables several functions, including Wnt receptor activity; Wnt-proteinbinding activity; and enzyme binding act...
GABBR1: Contributes to G protein-coupled GABA receptor activity. Involvedin adenylate cyclase-inhibiting...
GCH1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTP cyclohydrolaseI activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including dopamine bio...
GNA15: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of cytosolic ...
GNAI3: Enables GDP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including GTP metabolic process; d...
GP1BA: Predicted to enable thrombin-activated receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including blood coagulation, intrinsic pathway; fibrinolysis;and positive regulation of platelet activation. Acts upstream of...
GPC3: Enables peptidyl-dipeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in positiveregulation of canonical Wnt sig...
GPR132: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be inv...
GPR183: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and oxysterol bindingactivity. Involved in se...
HAS2: Enables hyaluronan synthase activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellula...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity; heparin binding activity; and transmembranereceptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in sever...
HIF1A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andenzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin se...
HPN: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation by host ...
HRH1: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled serotonin receptor activity; histaminereceptor activity; and neurotransmitter receptor activity. Predicted to beinvo...
ICAM1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingT cell activation via T cell receptor contact with antigen bound to MHC moleculeon antigen presenting cell; cellular response to amyloid...
ICAM4: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to be ...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin T ...
IFITM1: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of viralentry into host cell; positive regulation o...
IFNAR1: Enables cytokine binding activity and type I interferon receptor activity.Involved in po...
IFNGR2: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-me...
IL10: Enables protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cellular catabolic process; regulation ofgene expression; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of orwithin several processes, including negative regulation...
IL10RA: Predicted to enable interleukin-10 receptor activity. Involved innegative regulation of auto...
IL12B: Enables identical protein binding activity; interleukin-12 alpha subunitbinding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes tocytokine activity; growth factor activity; and interleukin-23 receptor bindingacti...
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation;and posit...
IL15RA: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity and protein kinase bindingactivity....
IL18: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-18 receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; positive regulation of intracellular sig...
IL18R1: Enables interleukin-18 binding activity and interleukin-18 receptoractivity. Involved in interleukin-18-me...
IL18RAP: Enables interleukin-18 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-...
IL1A: Enables copper ion binding activity and cytokine activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of interleukin-2 production;positive regulation of mitotic nuclear divi...
IL1B: Enables cytokine activity; integrin binding activity; and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of monooxygenaseactivity; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstrea...
IL1R1: Enables interleukin-1 receptor activity and platelet-derived growthfactor receptor binding activity. Involved in interleukin-1-mediated signaling...
IL2RB: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity; interleukin-2 binding activity;and interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signalingpathway; interle...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within sever...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within sev...
IL7R: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Involved in positive regulationof cell population proliferation and positive regulation of receptor signalin...
INHBA: Enables identical protein binding activity; peptide hormone bindingactivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
IRAK2: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in interleukin-1-mediated sign...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding ac...
IRF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specificand RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific D...
ITGA5: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling ...
ITGB3: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity;protein disulfide isomerase activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity and growth factor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including apolipoprotein A-I-mediatedsignaling pathway; negative regulation of lipid localization; and positiveregulation of protei...
ITGB8: Enables extracellular matrix protein binding activity. Involved inseveral proce...
KCNA3: Predicted to enable delayed rectifier potassium channel activity. Predictedto be involved in potassium ion...
KCNJ2: Enables identical protein binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity; and voltage-gated potassium channel activity. Involved inseveral proces...
KCNMB2: Enables calcium-activated potassium channel activity. Involved indetecti...
KIF1B: Predicted to enable ATP hydrolysis activity; microtubule binding activity;and plus-end-directed microtubule motor activity. Predicted to be involvedin chemical synaptic transmission; dense core granule cytoskeletal transport;and vesicl...
KLF6: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regu...
LAMP3: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of proteo...
LCK: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in seve...
LCP2: Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway and positive regulation...
LDLR: Enables several functions, including low-density lipoprotein particlebinding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; andvery-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved i...
LIF: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and leukemia inhibitoryfactor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingleukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathwa...
LPAR1: Enables lysophosphatidic acid binding activity and lysophosphatidicacid receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including activationof phos...
LTA: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in apoptotic process; cell-cell signaling; and signal transduction.Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including lymph...
LY6E: Predicted to enable acetylcholine receptor inhibitor activity. Involved...
LYN: Enables several functions, including ephrin receptor binding activity;non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity; and scaffold prote...
MARCO: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several processes, including adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupl...
MEFV: Enables actin binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of NLRP3 inflammasomecomplex ...
MEP1A: Enables metallodipeptidase activity. Involved in epidermal gro...
MET: Enables identical protein binding activity; molecular function activatoractivity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including endothelial cell morphogenesis; negative r...
MMP14: Enables endopeptidase activity and metalloaminopeptidase activity.Involved in several processes, including endodermal cell differentiation;regulation of protein localization to plasma membran...
MSR1: Predicted to enable amyloid-beta binding activity; cargo receptor activity;and low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including endocytosis; positive regulation of cholesterols...
MXD1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis...
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 bindingactivity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulationof fi...
NAMPT: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process and pos...
NDP: Enables cytokine activity; frizzled binding activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in Norrin signaling pa...
NFKB1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; actinin binding activity; and transcriptioncoactivator binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularrespon...
NFKBIA: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; nuclearlocalization sequence binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofmacrophage derived foam cell diff...
NLRP3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including NLRP3 inflammasome complex assembly; negative regulat...
NMI: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activatio...
NMUR1: Enables neuromedin U binding activity and neuromedin U receptor activity.Inv...
NOD2: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity; heatshock protein binding activity; and muramyl dipeptide binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of cytokine production;positive regulation of immune response; and response to b...
NPFFR2: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity and peptide...
OLR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including leukocyte cell-cell adhesion; lipoproteinmetabo...
OPRK1: Enables dynorphin receptor activity. Involved in adenylate cyclase-inh...
OSM: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and oncostatin-M receptorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including oncostatin-M-mediatedsignaling pathway; p...
OSMR: Enables growth factor binding activity. Contributes to oncostatin-Mreceptor activity. Involved in oncos...
P2RX4: Enables several functions, including cadherin binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ligand-gated monoatomic ...
P2RX7: Enables extracellularly ATP-gated monoatomic cation channel activityand purinergic nucleo...
P2RY2: Predicted to enable A1 adenosine receptor binding activity and G protein-coupledUTP receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in G protein-coupled receptors...
PCDH7: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding...
PDE4B: Enables 3'',5''-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and cAMP bindingactivity. Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; positive...
PDPN: Enables chemokine binding activity; protein-folding chaperone bindingactivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regula...
PIK3R5: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activityand G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity. Predict...
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity;and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regu...
PROK2: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including ...
PSEN1: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; PDZ domainbinding activity; and aspartic endopeptidase activity, intramembrane cleaving.Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta formation; pr...
PTAFR: Enables phospholipid binding activity and platelet activating factorreceptor activity...
PTGER2: Predicted to enable prostaglandin E receptor activity. Predicted tobe involved in several processes, including cellular response to prostaglandinE stimulus; negative regulatio...
PTGER4: Enables prostaglandin E receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including adenylate cyclase-modulating G protein-coupled receptor signa...
PTGIR: Predicted to enable prostacyclin receptor activity. Involved in adenylatecyc...
PTPRE: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activity. Predicted to be involved in negative ...
PVR: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of natural killer cel...
RAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including activation of adenylate cyclase activity; p...
RASGRP1: Enables several functions, including cation binding activity; diacylglycerolbinding activity; and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor ac...
RELA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-bindingtranscription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and enzyme bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to moleculeof bacterial origin; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulationof sig...
RGS1: Enables G-protein alpha-subunit binding activity and GTPase activatoractivity. I...
RGS16: Enables GTPase activator activity....
RHOG: Enables GTPase activity. Involved in activation of GTPase activity;cell chemotaxis; and positive regulation of pro...
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; proteindomain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several process...
RNF144B: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in ...
ROS1: Enables protein phosphatase binding activity and protein tyrosine kinaseactivity. Involved in pro...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. Involved indefens...
SCARF1: Enables low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity and scavengerreceptor activ...
SCN1B: Enables sodium channel regulator activity and voltage-gated sodiumchannel activity involved in Purkinje myocyte action potential. Involved inseveral processes, including cardiac m...
SELE: Enables several functions, including oligosaccharide binding activity;phospholipase binding activity; and sialic acid binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including activation of phospholipase ...
SELENOS: Enables ATPase binding activity; antioxidant activity; and ubiquitin-specificprotease binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ERAD path...
SELL: Enables calcium ion binding activity; oligosaccharide binding activity;and protease binding activity. Involved in calcium-dependent cell-ce...
SEMA4D: Enables identical protein binding activity; semaphorin receptor bindingactivity; and transmembrane signaling recep...
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis;and response to ba...
SGMS2: Enables ceramide cholinephosphotransferase activity and sphingomyelinsynthase activity. Inv...
SLAMF1: Enables SH2 domain binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in seve...
SLC11A2: Enables several functions, including lead ion transmembrane transporteractivity; retromer complex binding activity; and transition metal ion transmembranetransporter activity. Involved in several processes, including ac...
SLC1A2: Enables high-affinity L-glutamate transmembrane transporter activity.Involved in amino acid import across plasma membrane and protein ...
SLC28A2: Enables neurotransmitter transmembrane transporter activity and nucleosidetransmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, in...
SLC31A1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin intracellular copper ion homeosta...
SLC31A2: Predicted to enable copper ion transmembrane transporter activity.Predicted to be involved in intracellular co...
SLC4A4: Enables identical protein binding activity and sodium:bicarbonatesymporter activity. Involved in bicarbo...
SLC7A1: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity; L-histidinetransmembrane transporter acti...
SLC7A2: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved...
SPHK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; calmodulinbinding activity; and lipid kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of i...
SRI: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protease binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, i...
STAB1: Enables low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particl...
TACR1: Enables substance P receptor activity. Involved in positive regulationof cytosolic calcium ion concentration;...
TACR3: Predicted to enable tachykinin receptor activity. Involved in positiv...
TAPBP: Enables TAP complex binding activity; TAP1 binding activity; and TAP2binding activity. Involved in MHC protein complex ass...
TIMP1: Enables cytokine activity; metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity;and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ce...
TLR1: Enables Toll-like receptor 2 binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in cell activation; positive regulation of innateimmune response; and positive regulation of interleukin-8 prod...
TLR2: Enables several functions, including lipopolysaccharide binding activity;peptide binding activity; and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; positiveregulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of defense response.Acts upstream of or within posi...
TLR3: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including I-kappaB phosphorylation;positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of signaltran...
TNFAIP6: Enables calcium ion binding activity; fibronectin binding activity;and hyaluronic acid binding activity. Involved in several process...
TNFRSF1B: Enables tumor necrosis factor binding activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to lipopolysaccharideand positive regulation of membrane protein ectodomain ...
TNFRSF9: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity; identical proteinbinding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin regulation of cel...
TNFSF10: Enables identical protein binding activity and zinc ion binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase ...
TNFSF15: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Acts upstreamof or wit...
TNFSF9: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of activated T cellproliferation a...
TPBG: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signalingpathway. Predicte...
VIP: Enables hormone activity and peptide hormone receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled...
////
ADAR: Enables double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase activity. Involved inseveral processes, including adenosine to inosine editing; negative regulationof protein kinase activity by regulation of protein phosphorylation; and nucleocytoplasmictransport. Acts upstream of or...
APOL6: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin lipid tr...
ARID5B: Enables transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity and transcriptioncoactivator activity. Involved in negative regulat...
ARL4A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellularprotein transport and vesicle...
AUTS2: Enables chromatin binding activity. Acts upstream of or within positiveregulation of histone H3-K4 methylation; positive regulation of histone H4-K16acetyla...
B2M: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including defense response to other organism; negative regulation of celldifferentiation; and regulation of receptor binding activity. Located in Golgiapparatus; cyto...
BANK1: Enables enzyme binding activity; signaling adaptor activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in B cell activatio...
BATF2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA bi...
BPGM: Predicted to enable bisphosphoglycerate mutase activity. Predicted tobe involved in carbohydrate derivative catabolic process and respiratory gaseousexchange by re...
BST2: Enables metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of intracellular transport of viral material;and negative regulation of pl...
BTG1: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in positive regulation ofangiogenesis; positive regulation of endothelial cell differentiation; andpositive regulation ...
C1R: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ...
C1S: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in comp...
CASP1: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity;cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process; positive regulation of signal tr...
CASP3: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptoticsignaling pathway and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in executionphase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular responseto staurosporine; erythrocyte differentiation; and positive regulation ofnitrogen compound metabolic proce...
CASP4: Enables CARD domain binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to amyloid-beta;...
CASP7: Enables RNA binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in execution phase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to staurosporine; po...
CASP8: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase activityinvolved in apoptotic signaling pathway; death effector domain binding activity;and scaffold protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to mechanical stimulus; proteolysis; and regulation of ...
CCL2: Predicted to enable CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokineactivity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokinestimulus; leukocyte chemotaxis; and regulation of apoptotic process. Locatedin extracellular region. Implicated...
CCL5: Enables several functions, including enzyme activator activity; phosphatidylinositolphospholipase C activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positiveregulation of cell migration; and positive regulation of cell-cell adhesion.Acts upstream of ...
CCL7: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including eosinophil chemotaxis; positive regulationof natural killer cell chemotaxis; and regulation of cell shape. Pre...
CD274: Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of activatedCD8-positive, alpha-beta T cell apoptotic process; regulation of T cell activation;and regulation of cytokine production. Located in severa...
CD38: Predicted to enable NAD+ nucleosidase activity and phosphorus-oxygenlyase activity. Involved in several processes, including B cell receptor ...
CD40: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulation of intracellularsignal transduction; and regulation of DNA-templated transcription. Locatedin cell surface and extracellular exoso...
CD69: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be i...
CD74: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;macrophage migration inhibitory factor binding activity; and signaling receptorbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including p...
CD86: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including CD40 signaling pathway; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of T cell activation. Predictedto act upstream of or within defense response to virus and toll-like receptorsignal...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CFB: Predicted to enable complement binding activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved in complement activation and response tobacterium. Predicted to act upstream of or within complement activation, alternativepathway. Located in...
CFH: Enables heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding activity; heparin bindingactivity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in complement activation;proteolysis; and regulation of complement activation, alternative pathway.Acts upstream of or within regulation of complement...
CIITA: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity and transcriptioncis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofviral entry into host cell; regulation ...
CMKLR1: Enables adipokinetic hormone binding activity and adipokinetic hormonereceptor activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
CMPK2: Enables UMP kinase activity; cytidylate kinase activity; and nucleosidediphosphate kinase acti...
CMTR1: Enables mRNA (nucleoside-2''-O-)-methyltransferase activity. In...
CSF2RB: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to contributeto interleukin-3 receptor activity and interleukin-5 receptor activity. Involvedin cell s...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regulationof leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to virus. ...
CXCL11: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity;and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cellchemotaxis; killing of cells of another organ...
CXCL9: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity.Involved in several processes, including antimicrobial humoral immune responsemediated by antimicrobial peptide; killing of cells of another organism; andpos...
DDX60: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity; double-stranded RNA bindingactivity; and single-stranded RNA binding activity. Inv...
DHX58: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; RNA bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding ...
EIF2AK2: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; eukaryotic translationinitiation factor 2alpha kinase activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to amino aci...
EIF4E3: Predicted to enable RNA 7-methylguanosine cap binding activity andtranslation initiation factor activity. Predicted to be involved in regu...
EPSTI1: ...
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellsurface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolicprocess; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or withinapoptotic process. Located in several cellu...
FCGR1A: Enables high-affinity IgG receptor activity. Involved in antibody-dependentcellular cytot...
FGL2: Predicted to enable peptidase activator activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in proteolysis. Predicted to actupstream of or within several processes, including T cell ...
FPR1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity and N-formyl peptidereceptor activity. Acts upstream of or...
GBP4: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto type II i...
GBP6: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Predictedto be involved in cellular response to type II interfero...
GCH1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTP cyclohydrolaseI activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including dopamine biosynthetic process; positive regulation of nitr...
GPR18: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in positive regulation of Rho protein signal transduction andpositive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration involved in phospholi...
GZMA: Enables protein homodimerization activity and serine-type endopeptidaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including cytotoxic T cell pyroptoticprocess; ...
HELZ2: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved ...
HERC6: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted tobe involved in protein ubiquitination and ubiquitin-depe...
HIF1A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; Hsp90 protein binding activity; andenzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity,RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including intracellular oxygen homeostasis; regulationof gene...
HLA-A: Enables several functions, including TAP complex binding activity;beta-2-microglobulin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including antigen processing and presentationof endogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I vi...
HLA-B: Enables several functions, including TAP binding activity; peptideantigen binding activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity.Involved in several processes, including antigen processing and presentationof endogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I via ER pathway, TAP...
HLA-DMA: Enables MHC class II protein complex binding activity. Involved inpeptide antigen assembly with ...
HLA-DQA1: Predicted to enable MHC class II protein complex binding activityand peptide antigen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptideantigen via MHC class II; peptide antigen assembly with MHC class II proteincomplex; and response to...
HLA-DRB1: Enables several functions, including MHC class II receptor activity;peptide antigen binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of immune response;regulation of gene expression; and regulation ...
HLA-G: Enables CD8 receptor binding activity; peptide antigen binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity; ...
ICAM1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingT cell activation via T cell receptor contact with antigen bound to MHC moleculeon antigen presenting cell; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and regulationof apoptotic process. Located in...
IDO1: Enables indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase activity. Involved in positive regulationof T cell apoptotic process. Predicted to be located in cyt...
IFI27: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding activity; and lamin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including defense resp...
IFI30: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors.Predicted to be involved in antigen processing and presentation of exogenouspeptide antigen via MHC clas...
IFI35: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activation involved in immune respo...
IFI44: Predicted to be involved in immune response. Predicted to ...
IFI44L: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Involv...
IFIH1: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; RNA bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes...
IFIT1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular ...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of proteinbind...
IFIT3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptot...
IFITM2: Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interferon-beta;negative regulation of viral entry...
IFITM3: Involved in several processes, including defense response to otherorganism; negative regulation of viral entry into host cell;...
IFNAR2: Enables protein kinase binding activity; type I interferon bindingactivity; and type I interferon receptor activity. Involved in several processes,inc...
IL10RA: Predicted to enable interleukin-10 receptor activity. Involved innegative regulation of autophagy; positive regulat...
IL15: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; macrophage differentiation;and positive regulation of macromolecule metaboli...
IL15RA: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity and protein kinase bindingactivity. Involved in interl...
IL18BP: Enables interleukin-18 binding activity. Involved in T-helper 1 typeimmune response. Located in extracellular exosome. Impl...
IL2RB: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity; interleukin-2 binding activity;and interleukin-2 receptor activity. Involved in interleukin-15-mediated signalingpathway; interleukin-2-mediated signaling pathway; and posit...
IL4R: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytokine-mediated signaling pathway; immunoglobulin mediated immune response;and positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including defense response to protozoan; negative...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes tointerleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion.Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular responseto lipopolysaccharide; positive regulatio...
IL7: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway;positive regulation of chemokine production; and positive regulation of cytokine-med...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, i...
IRF2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region...
IRF4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cytokine productionand...
IRF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity;and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation o...
IRF7: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specificand RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA bindingactivity. Involved in sev...
IRF8: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in ce...
IRF9: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in posit...
ISG15: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingISG15-protein conjugation; d...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin RNA catabolic p...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in per...
ITGB7: Enables cell adhesion molecule binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including integrin-mediated sig...
JAK2: Enables several functions, including SH2 domain binding activity; hemebinding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation oflymphocyte proliferation; and protein modification process. Acts upstreamof or within positive regulation of SMAD protein signal transduction; positiveregulation of platelet activat...
KLRK1: Enables signaling receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of GTPase activity; negative regulation of naturalkiller cell chemotaxis; and...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Predicted t...
LATS2: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including G1/S transition of mitotic...
LCP2: Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway and positive regulationof protein kinase ...
LGALS3BP: Predicted to enable scavenger receptor activity. Predicted to beinvolved in cellular def...
LY6E: Predicted to enable acetylcholine receptor inhibitor activity. Involvedin negative regu...
LYSMD2: ...
MARCHF1: Enables MHC protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligaseactivity. Involved in antigen processing and presentation of...
METTL7B: Enables thiol S-methyltransferase activity. Predicted to be invol...
MT2A: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to erythropoietin; cellular response to interleukin-3; and cellularresp...
MTHFD2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydro...
MVP: Enables identical protein binding activity; protein kinase binding activity;and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in ERBB signaling pathway;negative regulation ...
MX1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in antiviral innateimmune response; interleukin-27-mediated signaling pathway; and negative regulationof vir...
MX2: Enables GTP binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingdefense r...
MYD88: Enables TIR domain binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and protein self-association. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to mechanical stimulus; defense response to other organism; and positiveregulatio...
NAMPT: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process and positive regulation of transcription...
NCOA3: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; nuclear receptor binding activity; and transcription coactivatoractivity. Involved in cellular response to estradi...
NFKB1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; actinin binding activity; and transcriptioncoactivator binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to cytokine stimulus; cellular response to mechanical st...
NFKBIA: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; nuclearlocalization sequence binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation ofmacrophage derived foam cell differentiation; positive regulation of cholesterolefflux; and regul...
NLRC5: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense respons...
NMI: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activation involved in immune respo...
NOD1: Enables CARD domain binding activity; pattern recognition receptor activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcellular response to muramyl dipeptide; regulation of gen...
NUP93: A structural constituent of nuclear pore. Involved in SMAD proteinsignal transduction; nucleus organization; and po...
OAS2: Enables 2''-5''-oligoadenylate synthetase activity; ATP binding activity;and double-stranded RNA binding activity. Invol...
OAS3: Enables 2''-5''-oligoadenylate synthetase activity; ATP binding activity;and double-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in sever...
OASL: Enables DNA binding activity and double-stranded RNA binding activity.Involved in several processes, including interleukin-...
OGFR: Predicted to enable opioid growth factor receptor...
P2RY14: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled purinergic nucleotide receptoractivity. Predicted to be involved in G pr...
PARP12: Enables NAD+-protein ADP-ribosyltransferase activity....
PARP14: Enables NAD+ binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and pentosyltransferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, includ...
PDE4B: Enables 3'',5''-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and cAMP bindingactivity. Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; positive regulationof interleukin-2 produ...
PELI1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of...
PFKP: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin canonical glycolysis; fructose 1,6-bisphosphate...
PIM1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; manganeseion binding activity; and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, ...
PLA2G4A: Enables several functions, including calcium ion binding activity;phospholipase activity; and phospholipid binding activity...
PLSCR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; metal ion binding activity; and signalingreceptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, in...
PML: Enables several functions, including protein dimerization activity; sumo-dependentprotein binding activity; and transition metal ion binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of apoptotic process;regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabo...
PNP: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;phosphate ion binding activity; and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase activity.Involved in several processes, including allantoin metabolic process; nucleobase-con...
PNPT1: Enables several functions, including 3''-5''-RNA exonuclease activity;RNA binding activity; and polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase activity.Involved in several processes, including RNA metabolic process; cellular re...
PSMA2: Involved in response to virus. Located in extracellula...
PSMA3: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in regulationof endope...
PSMB10: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involvedin proteasomal protein catabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of orwithin T cell...
PSMB2: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Predicted to be involved inproteasomal p...
PSMB8: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in fat cell differentiationand r...
PSMB9: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in regulationof cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Located in cytosol. Implicated inautoimmune di...
PSME1: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activator activity. Predicted tobe involved in positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; regulation ofG1/S tra...
PSME2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of endopeptidase activity; regulation of G1/S transitionof ...
PTGS2: Enables enzyme binding activity and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthaseactivity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia and cyclooxygenase pathway.Located in endoplasmic reticulum; neuron projection; and nuclear membrane.Implicated in ...
PTPN1: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; signaling receptor bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of receptor catabo...
PTPN2: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; signaling receptor bindingactivity; and syntaxin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of signal transduction; peptidyl-t...
PTPN6: Enables several functions, including phosphorylation-dependent proteinbinding activity; phosphotyrosine residue binding activity; and transmembranereceptor protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involved in sever...
RAPGEF6: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity; and phosphatidic acidbinding activit...
RBCK1: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protein sequestering activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved insev...
RIPK1: Enables several functions, including death receptor binding activity;protein homodimerization activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell de...
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; proteindomain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular response to muramyl...
RNF213: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity.Involved in several processes, including defense respo...
RNF31: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;ubiquitin binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding acti...
RSAD2: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity and protein self-association.Involved in defense response to virus; negative regulation of protein...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. Involved indefense response to virus...
SAMD9L: Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includingcommon myeloid progenitor cell...
SAMHD1: Enables several functions, including dGTP binding activity; dGTPaseactivity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes,including DNA metabolic process; protein homotetr...
SECTM1: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in positive regula...
SELP: Enables several functions, including fucose binding activity; heparinbinding activity; and lipopolysaccharide binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion via plasma membranecell adhesion molecules; calcium-mediated signalin...
SERPING1: Enables serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved innegative regulation of complement activation, lectin pathway. Located in bloodmicroparticle and extracellular exosome. Part of collagen-conta...
SLAMF7: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin T cell activa...
SLC25A28: Predicted to enable ferrous iron transmembrane transporter activ...
SOCS1: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity and proteinkinase binding activity. Involved in macrophage differentiation; negativeregulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein; and positive regulationof regulatory T cell differentiation. Locate...
SOCS3: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activity.Involved in negative regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein.Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predi...
SOD2: Enables identical protein binding activity; manganese ion binding activity;and superoxide dismutase activity. Involved in several processes, includingintracellular oxygen homeostasis; negative regulation of vascular associatedsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulatio...
SP110: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transcriptionby RNA po...
SPPL2A: Enables aspartic endopeptidase activity, intramembrane cleaving andprotein homodimerization activity. Involved in membrane protein ectodomainproteolysi...
SRI: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;protease binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including regulation of calcium ion transmemb...
SSPN: Predicted to be involved in cell adhes...
ST3GAL5: Enables lactosylceramide alpha-2,3-sialyltransferase activity. Predictedto be involved ...
ST8SIA4: Enables alpha-N-acetylneuraminate alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase activity.Involved in gangliosid...
STAT1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II transcriptionregulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; enzyme binding activity;and transcription coregulator binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; macrophage derived foamcell differentiation; and positi...
STAT2: Enables identical protein binding activity and ubiquitin-like proteinligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defenseresponse to other organism; ne...
STAT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity;and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingcell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of erythrocytedifferentiation; and positive regulation of macrom...
STAT4: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II; and response to peptide hormone. Predictedto act upstream of or within several processes, including hematopo...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporteractivity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity.Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigenvia MHC class I; cytosol to...
TAPBP: Enables TAP complex binding activity; TAP1 binding activity; and TAP2binding activity. Involved in MHC protein complex assembly; regulation ofgene expre...
TDRD7: Enables mRNA binding activity. Involved in lens fiber cell differentiation;lens morphogenesis i...
TNFAIP2: Predicted to enable SNARE binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin exocy...
TNFAIP3: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein modificationby small protein ...
TNFAIP6: Enables calcium ion binding activity; fibronectin binding activity;and hyaluronic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingfibronectin fibril ...
TNFSF10: Enables identical protein binding activity and zinc ion binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involvedin apoptotic proc...
TOR1B: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and identical protein binding activity.I...
TRAFD1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. P...
TRIM14: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in innate immuneresponse; negativ...
TRIM21: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivatoractivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes,...
TRIM25: Enables RIG-I binding activity; transcription coactivator activity;and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, includingposit...
TRIM26: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved indefense response to other organism; negative regulatio...
TXNIP: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in cellularrespo...
UBE2L6: Enables ubiquitin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in ISG15-proteinconjugation; protein polyubiquitination; and ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic...
UPP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and uridine ph...
USP18: Enables ISG15-specific peptidase activity. Involved in negative regulationof t...
VAMP5: Predicted to be involved in Golgi to plasma membrane protein transport...
VAMP8: Enables chloride channel inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes,including autophagosome membrane docking; mucus secretion; and regulation...
VCAM1: Enables integrin binding activity and primary amine oxidase activity.Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling usingintracellular calcium source; cell-cell adhesion in response to extracellularstimulus; and cellular response to amyloid-beta. Located in...
WARS1: Enables several functions, including kinase inhibitor activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and tryptophan-tRNA ligase activity. Involved inseveral processes, includ...
XAF1: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Invol...
XCL1: Enables chemokine activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including positive regulation of lym...
ZBP1: Enables DNA binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involve...
ZNFX1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in defense response to bacteriumand de...
////
ABCF2: Predicted to enable ATP b...
ACACA: Enables acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in acetyl-CoA metabolic process; fattyacid biosynthetic process; an...
ACLY: Enables ATP citrate synthase activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosyntheticprocess;...
ACSL3: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity; protein domain specificbinding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including positive regulation of phosphatidylcholine biosyntheticpr...
ACTR2: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filamentbinding activity. Involved in Arp2/3 complex-mediated actin nucleation; positiveregulation of lamellipodium ...
ACTR3: A structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Contributes to actin filamentbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including Arp2/3 complex-mediatedactin nucleation; positive regulation of lam...
ADD3: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved ...
ADIPOR2: Enables adipokinetic hormone receptor activity and adiponectin bindingactivity. Involved in adiponectin-activated si...
AK4: Enables adenylate kinase activity; nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity;and nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase...
ALDOA: Enables several functions, including fructose binding activity; fructose-bisphosphatealdolase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in severalprocess...
ARPC5L: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted tobe involved i...
ASNS: Enables asparagine synthase (glutamine-hydrolyzing) activity. Involvedin cellular response to glucose starvation; ...
ATP2A2: Enables several functions, including P-type calcium transporter activityinvolved in regulation of cardiac muscle cell membrane potential; S100 proteinbinding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including calci...
ATP5MC1: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity and proton transmembranetranspo...
ATP6V1D: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotationalmechanism. Involved in cilium assemb...
AURKA: Enables several functions, including molecular function activator activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and protein kinase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cilium disassembly; peptidyl-serinephosphorylation; and positive regulation of mitochondrial fission. Acts upst...
BCAT1: Predicted to enable branched-chain-amino-acid transaminase activity.Predicted to be involved in leucine biosynthetic process and ...
BHLHE40: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and proteindimeriz...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved innegative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulationof translation; and neuron project...
BUB1: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Involved in regulationof chromosome segregat...
CACYBP: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin heart development. Predicted to act upstream o...
CALR: Enables several functions, including integrin binding activity; nuclearandrogen receptor binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macromoleculebiosynthetic process; negative regulation of signal transduction; and regulationof cell migration. Located in several cellu...
CANX: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in endocytosis;protein folding; and ubiquitin...
CCNF: Enables anaphase-promoting complex binding activity. Involved in SCF-dependentproteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process; negative re...
CCNG1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinaseregulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transitionand regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity.Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be ...
CCT6A: Enables WD40-repeat domain binding activity and protein folding chaperone.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of estab...
CD9: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingfusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization; glialcell migration; and negative regulation of plate...
CDC25A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein-folding chaperonebinding activity. Involved in cellular response to UV. Predicted to be locatedin cytosol and nucle...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CFP: Predicted to be involved in defense response to bacterium and immuneresponse. Located in plasma memb...
COPS5: Enables metal-dependent deubiquitinase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including protein modification by small protein removal; regulationof DNA-templated transcription...
CORO1A: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity; phosphatidylinositol3-kinase binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including natural killer cell degranulatio...
CTH: Enables carbon-sulfur lyase activity; identical protein binding activity;and pyridoxal phosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
CTSC: Enables cysteine-type peptidase activity. Involved in proteolysis. Loca...
CXCR4: Enables several functions, including C-X-C motif chemokine 12 receptoractivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including CXCL12-activatedCXCR4 signaling pathway; positive regulation of macrophage migration inhibitoryfactor signaling pathway; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or withincalcium-media...
CYB5B: Enables heme binding activity. Contributes to nitrite reductase (NO-forming)ac...
CYP51A1: Enables heme binding activity and sterol 14-demethylase a...
DAPP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity andphosphatidyl...
DDIT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor bindingactivity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding acti...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defens...
DDX39A: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved ...
DHCR24: Enables enzyme binding activity; oxidoreductase activity, acting onthe CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor; and peptide antigen bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol bi...
DHCR7: Enables 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase activity. Involved in cholesterolbiosynt...
DHFR: Enables anion binding activity; dihydrofolate reductase activity; andnucleic acid binding activity. Involved in folic acid-containing compoundme...
EBP: Enables identical protein binding activity and steroid delta-isomeraseactivity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic process and os...
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity andmisfolded protein binding activity. Involved in mannose trimming involve...
EEF1E1: Involved in positive regulation of cellular senescence. Located incytosol; nucleolus; and nucl...
EGLN3: Enables peptidyl-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved...
EIF2S2: Enables translation initiation factor activity. Predicted to be involvedin formation of cytoplasmic translation initiation complex and formation oftranslation ...
ELOVL5: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid biosyntheticprocess and positive regulation ...
ELOVL6: Enables fatty acid elongase activity. Involved in fatty acid elongation,saturated fat...
ENO1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; phosphopyruvate hydratase activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, includingcanonical...
EPRS1: Enables several functions, including RNA stem-loop binding activity;proline-tRNA ligase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin several processes, including cellular resp...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in cell redox homeostasisand chaper...
ETF1: Enables sequence-specific mRNA binding activity and translation releasefactor activity. Involved in regulat...
FADS1: Enables acyl-CoA delta5-desaturase activity and linoleoyl-CoA desaturaseactivity. Involved in cellular respo...
FADS2: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors,with oxidation of a pair of donor...
FDXR: Predicted to enable NADPH-adrenodoxin reductase activity. ...
FGL2: Predicted to enable peptidase activator activity and signaling receptorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in proteolysis. Predicted to actupstream of or within several processes, including T cell ...
FKBP2: Predicted to enable peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Predictedto be involved in chaperone-mediated p...
G6PD: Enables several functions, including glucose binding activity; glucose-6-phosphatedehydrogenase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved inseveral processes, including erythrocyte maturation; negative regulation ofprotein glutathionylation; and pento...
GAPDH: Enables aspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity; disordereddomain specific binding activity; and identical protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism;negative regulation of...
GBE1: Enables 1,4-alpha-glucan branching enzyme activity. Involved in glycogenbiosynth...
GCLC: Enables anion binding activity; glutamate-cysteine ligase activity;and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, includingalpha-amino acid metabolic proc...
GGA2: Enables small GTPase binding activity. Involved in Golgi to plasma membranepro...
GLA: Enables hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds; proteinhomodimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding a...
GLRX: Enables glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Involved in positiveregulation o...
GMPS: Enables GMP synthase activity. Acts upstream of or within GM...
GOT1: Enables L-aspartate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity. Involvedin aspartate catabolic process; cellular response to insulin stim...
GPI: Enables glucose-6-phosphate isomerase activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in glucose 6-phosphate metabolic process;positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and positive ...
GSK3B: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; enzymebinding activity; and protein kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein phosphorylation;and regulation of neuron death. Acts upstream of or within several processes,including ER overload response; peptid...
GSR: Predicted to enable flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity andglutathione-disulfide reductase (NADPH) activity. Predicted to be involvedin cell redox homeostasis; cellular response to ox...
GTF2H1: Enables nuclear thyroid hormone receptor binding activity. Involvedin positive regulation of DNA-templated trans...
HK2: Enables glucokinase activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of autophagy of mitochondrionin response to ...
HMBS: Enables hydroxymethylbilane synthase activity. Involved in heme biosyntheticprocess. Predicted to be located in cytosol....
HMGCR: Enables NADPH binding activity; coenzyme A binding activity; and hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoAreductase (NADPH) activity. Involved in cholesterol biosynthetic proc...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic proce...
HPRT1: Enables identical protein binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity;and purine phosphoribosyltransferase activity. Involved in nucleobase-c...
HSP90B1: Enables RNA binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptorbinding activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in ERADpathway; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and response to hypox...
HSPA4: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity;and ATP-dependent protein folding chaperone. Involved in chaperone-mediatedprotein complex assembly and p...
HSPA5: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysisactivity; and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to glucose starvation; positive regulation ofcell migration; and protein localization...
HSPA9: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in erythrocytedifferentiation; iron-sulfur cluster assembly; and negative regulation oferythrocyte differe...
HSPD1: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein A-I binding activity;high-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; and lipopolysaccharidebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including B cell activation;positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of leukocyteactivation. Acts upstream of or within T cell activation and positive...
HSPE1: Enables protein-folding chaperone binding activ...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutaratemetabolic process and isocitra...
IDI1: Enables isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase activity; magnesiumion binding...
IFI30: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors.Predicted to be involved in antigen processing and presentation of exogenouspeptide antigen via MHC clas...
IFRD1: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcriptionfactor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in myoblast fate determination.Predicted to ac...
IGFBP5: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cellular response to cAMP; r...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cristae ...
INSIG1: Enables oxysterol binding activity. Involved in several processes,including SREBP signaling pathway; SREBP-SCAP ...
ITGB2: Enables several functions, including ICAM-3 receptor activity; heatshock protein binding activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including integrin-mediated signaling pathway; neutro...
LDHA: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein bindingacti...
LDLR: Enables several functions, including low-density lipoprotein particlebinding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; andvery-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cholesterol homeostasi...
LGMN: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including cellular response to amyloid-beta; positive...
LTA4H: Enables ether hydrolase activity; metalloaminopeptidase activity; andzinc ion binding activity....
M6PR: Enables retromer complex binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin protein targeting to l...
MAP2K3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of hippo signaling; p38MAPK cascade; and positiveregulati...
MCM2: Predicted to enable single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto contribute to 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA helicaseactivity. Involv...
MCM4: Contributes to DNA helicase activity and single-stranded DNA bindingactivity. Involved...
ME1: Enables several functions, including malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating)(NADP+) activity; metal ion binding activity; and oxaloac...
MLLT11: Involved in several processes, including apoptotic signaling pathway;positive regulation of ...
MTHFD2: Enables several functions, including magnesium ion binding activity;methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydro...
MTHFD2L: Predicted to enable methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activity;methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity; and methylen...
NAMPT: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process and positive regulation of transcription...
NFIL3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNAbinding acti...
NFKBIB: Predicted to enable transcription coactivator activity. Predictedto be involved in cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; cytoplasmic sequesteringof NF-kap...
NFYC: Enables DNA binding activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase II cis-regulatoryregion sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in histone H3...
NIBAN1: Predicted to be involved in regulation of protein metabolic pr...
NMT1: Enables glycylpeptide N-tetradecanoyltransferase activity and peptidyl-lysineN6-myristoyltransferase activity. Inv...
NUFIP1: Enables several functions, including ATPase binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Contributes...
NUP205: A structural constituent of nuclear pore. Involved in nuclear porecomplex assemb...
NUPR1: Enables DNA binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and transcriptioncoactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulationof catabolic process; p...
P4HA1: Enables identical protein binding activity and procollagen-proline4-dioxygenase activity. Predicted to be involved in peptidyl-prolin...
PDAP1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in sig...
PDK1: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity.Involved in several processes, including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha signalingpathway; intrinsic apopto...
PFKL: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity;anion binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in severalprocess...
PGK1: Enables phosphoglycerate kinase activity and protein-disulfide reductase(NAD(P)) activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular r...
PGM1: Enables magnesium ion binding activity and phosphoglucomutase activity.Involved in glucose met...
PHGDH: Predicted to enable phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase activity. Predictedto be involved in brain development. Predicted to act upstream of or withinseveral p...
PIK3R3: Enables phosphotyrosine residue binding activity. Involved in cellmigration involved in sprouting angiogenesis; positive regulation of macromolecule...
PITPNB: Enables phospholipid binding activity and phospholipid transfer activity.Involved in phospholipid transport and retrograd...
PLK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; anaphase-promotingcomplex binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including microtubule cytoskeleton organization; regulationof cell cycle process; and regulation of protein m...
PLOD2: Enables procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenase activity. Involved in hydroxylysinebiosynthetic ...
PNO1: Enables RNA binding activit...
PNP: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;phosphate ion binding activity; and purine-nucleoside phosphorylase activity.Involved in several processes, including allantoin metabolic process; nucleobase-con...
POLR3G: Enables chromatin binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof innate immune response; positive regulation of interferon-...
PPA1: Predicted to enable inorganic diphosphate phosphatase activity and magnesiumion bind...
PPIA: Enables cyclosporin A binding activity; heparan sulfate binding activity;and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. Involved in several processes,including cell adhesion molecule production; regulation of intracellular...
PPP1R15A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein phosphatase1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localizationto endoplasmic reticulum; regulati...
PRDX1: Enables thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in natural killercell activation. Acts upstream of...
PSAT1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin L...
PSMA3: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in regulationof endope...
PSMA4: Predicted to enable threonine-type endopeptidase activity. Predictedto be involved in proteasomal prot...
PSMB5: Enables peptidase activity. Acts upstream of or within proteolysis.Loc...
PSMC2: Enables proteasome-activating activity. Involved in ubiquitin-dependentprote...
PSMC4: Predicted to enable proteasome-activating activity. Predicted to beinvolved in proteasome-mediated ubiquitin-d...
PSMC6: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of RNA ...
PSMD12: Located in extracellular exoso...
PSMD13: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to beinvolved in ubiquitin-dependen...
PSMD14: Enables endopeptidase activator activity; metal-dependent deubiquitinaseactivity; and proteasome binding activity. Involved in doubl...
PSME3: Enables several functions, including MDM2/MDM4 family protein bindingactivity; endopeptidase activator activity; and p53 bi...
PSMG1: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in chaperone-mediatedprotein complex assembly. Locate...
PSPH: Enables L-phosphoserine phosphatase activity; magnesium ion bindingactivity; and protein homodimerization ...
QDPR: Enables 6,7-dihydropteridine reductase activity. Predicted to be involvedin L-phenylalanine catabolic...
RAB1A: Enables GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including COPII-coatedvesicle cargo loadi...
RDH11: Enables NADP-retinol dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cellular detoxificationof aldehy...
RIT1: Enables GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in Ras proteinsignal transduction. Predicted to ...
RPA1: Enables G-rich strand telomeric DNA binding activity and damaged DNAbinding activity. Involved in DNA metabolic ...
RPN1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in protein N-linked glycosylation...
RRM2: Predicted to enable ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase activity, thioredoxindisulfide as acceptor. Involved in 2''-deoxyribonucleotide biosynthetic process;positive regulation of G1...
RRP9: Enables RNA binding activity. Contributes to U3 snoRNA binding...
SC5D: Enables C-5 sterol desaturase activity. Predicted to be involved incholesterol biosynthetic...
SCD: Enables iron ion binding activity and stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity.In...
SDF2L1: Enables misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in chaperonecofacto...
SEC11A: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Inv...
SERP1: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum unfolded proteinresponse and protein glycosylation. Predicted to act upstream of or w...
SERPINH1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in collagenfibril organization and negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Predictedto act upstream of or within chondrocyte development involved in endochondralbone morphogene...
SHMT2: Enables chromatin binding activity; glycine hydroxymethyltransferaseactivity; and pyridoxal phosphate binding activity. Involved in several proce...
SKAP2: Predicted to be involved in protein-containing complex assembly andsignal transduction. Predict...
SLA: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in cell differentiation; innate immune response; and transmembranerece...
SLC1A4: Enables L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and chloridechannel activi...
SLC1A5: Enables L-glutamine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved inglutamine transport and protein homotrimeriz...
SLC2A1: Enables several functions, including D-glucose transmembrane transporteractivity; dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in glucose import across plasma membrane;long-chain fatty acid import across plasma membrane; and protein-containingcomplex assembly. Acts u...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity; and hexose transmembrane transporter activity. Involvedin galactose tra...
SLC37A4: Enables glucose 6-phosphate:inorganic phosphate antiporter activity.Involved in glucose homeostasis; glucose-6-p...
SLC6A6: Enables alanine transmembrane transporter activity; amino acid:sodiumsymporter activity; and taurine:sodium symporter activity. Involved in alaninetrans...
SLC7A11: Predicted to enable L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity.Invo...
SLC7A5: Enables L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and secondaryactive transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes,including amino acid transport; phenylalanine transport; and thyroid hormonetransport. Located in apical plasma mem...
NHERF1: Enables several functions, including PDZ domain binding activity;beta-catenin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including establishment ...
SORD: Enables several functions, including L-iditol 2-dehydrogenase activity;NAD binding activity; and zinc ion bindi...
SQLE: Enables FAD binding activity and squalene monooxygenase activity. Involvedin lipid droplet formatio...
SQSTM1: Enables several functions, including K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependentprotein binding activity; SH2 domain binding activity; and enzyme bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including protein loc...
SRD5A1: Enables 3-oxo-5-alpha-steroid 4-dehydrogenase activity. Predictedto be involved in steroid biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstreamof ...
SSR1: Predicted to be involved in cotranslational protein targeting to me...
STARD4: Enables cholesterol binding activity and cholesterol transfer activity.Involved in ch...
STC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including chond...
STIP1: Enables Hsp90 protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved inprotein foldin...
SYTL2: Enables phosphatase binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphatebinding activity; an...
TBK1: Enables phosphoprotein binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulationof I-kappaB kinas...
TCEA1: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity; translation elongation factoractivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in DNA-templatedtranscription and posit...
TES: Enables zinc ion binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofcell popu...
TFRC: Enables several functions, including double-stranded RNA binding activity;protein homodimerization activity; and transferrin receptor activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation of mitochondrial fusion;positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity; and positiver...
TM7SF2: Enables delta14-sterol reductase activity. Involved in chole...
TMEM97: Involved in cholesterol homeostasis. Located in several cell...
TOMM40: Predicted to enable protein transmembrane transporter activity. Involvedin protein targeting to mitochondrion. Located in cytos...
TPI1: Enables protein homodimerization activity; triose-phosphate isomeraseactivity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Invo...
TRIB3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptoticsignaling pathway in response to ...
TUBA4A: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule cyt...
TUBG1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin microtubule cytoskeleton organization and mitotic sister chromat...
TXNRD1: Enables several functions, including FAD binding activity; NADPH peroxidaseactivity; and thioredoxin-disulfide reductase activity. Predicted to be i...
UBE2D3: Enables ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity and ubiquitin proteinligase activity. Involv...
UCHL5: Enables cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity; endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; and proteasome binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of ...
UFM1: Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of proteinimport into nucleus; protein K69-linked ufmylati...
UNG: Enables damaged DNA binding activity; ribosomal small subunit bindingactivity; and uracil DNA N-glycosylase activity. Invo...
USO1: Enables RNA binding activity and cadherin binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including Golgi vesicle transport; intracellularprotein transport; and t...
VLDLR: Enables several functions, including apolipoprotein binding activity;very-low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; and very-low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in glyco...
WARS1: Enables several functions, including kinase inhibitor activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and tryptophan-tRNA ligase activity. Involved inseveral processes, includ...
XBP1: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; enzyme bindingactivity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including posit...
YKT6: Enables SNAP receptor activity and protein-cysteine S-palmitoyltransferaseactivity. Involved in several processes, including endoplasmic reticulum t...
////
ABLIM1: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Acts upstream...
ACHE: Enables several functions, including acetylcholine binding activity;acetylcholinesterase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involvedin acetylcholine catabolic process; cell adhesion; and osteoblast develo...
ACSL1: Enables long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. Involved in lipidbiosynthetic process; long-chain...
ACTA1: Predicted to enable ADP binding activity; ATP binding activity; andmyosin binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton.Involv...
ACTC1: Enables ATP binding activity; microfilament motor activity; and myosinbinding activity. Involved in actin-myosin filament sliding an...
ACTN2: Enables several functions, including cytoskeletal protein binding activity;phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding activity; and titin Z domainbinding activity. Involved in several processes, includ...
ACTN3: Enables identical protein binding activity and transmembrane tr...
ADAM12: Enables SH3 domain binding activity. Involved in positive regulat...
ADCY9: Enables adenylate cyclase activity. Involved in adenylate cyclase-acti...
AEBP1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity; and collagen bindi...
AGL: Enables 4-alpha-glucanotransferase activity and amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidaseactivity. Predicted to be involved i...
AGRN: Predicted to enable several functions, including chondroitin sulfatebinding activity; dystroglycan binding activi...
AK1: Enables adenylate kinase activity and nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.Involved in nucleoside tri...
AKT2: Enables ATP binding activity; molecular function activator activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential; positiveregulation of small ...
ANKRD2: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and protein kinase B binding activity. Involved in negativeregulation of myob...
APLNR: Predicted to enable apelin receptor activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cAMP-mediated signa...
APOD: Enables cholesterol binding activity. Involved in several processes,including negative regulation of cell-matrix adhesion; negative regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; ...
APP: Enables several functions, including PTB domain binding activity; proteindimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved inseveral processes, including defense response to other organism; modulationof chemical synaptic transmission; and positive regulation of macromoleculemetabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of gene expression.Locat...
ATP2A1: Enables P-type calcium transporter activity; calcium ion binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,...
ATP6AP1: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in cellularresponse to...
BAG1: Enables adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and ubiquitin proteinligase binding activity. Involved in chaperone ...
BDKRB2: Enables several functions, including bradykinin receptor activity;protein heterodimerization activity; and type 1 angiotensin receptor bindingacti...
BHLHE40: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and proteindimeriz...
BIN1: Enables several functions, including aspartic-type endopeptidase inhibitoractivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and enzyme binding activity.Involved in several processes, including T-tubule organization; negative regulationof amyl...
CACNA1H: Enables low voltage-gated calcium channel activity and scaffold proteinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion import;...
CACNG1: Predicted to enable calcium channel regulator activity. Predictedto be involved in regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transport via highvoltage-gated calcium channel. Predicted to act upstre...
CAMK2B: Enables calcium-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activityand protein homodimerization activity. Involved in peptidyl-serine phosphoryl...
CASQ1: Enables calcium ion binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in pro...
CASQ2: Enables calcium ion binding activity; calcium ion sequestering activity;and calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,incl...
CAV3: Enables several functions, including connexin binding activity; ionchannel regulator activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell size;regulation of metal ion transport; and regulation of mu...
CD36: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;fatty acid transmembrane transporter activity; and low-density lipoproteinparticle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-betaclearance by cellular catabolic process; lipid transport; and second-messenger-mediatedsignaling. L...
CDH13: Enables cadherin binding activity and low-density lipoprotein particlebinding activity. Involved in several processes, including Ras protein signaltransduction; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and r...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; proteinkinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved inseveral processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulationof vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation ofprotein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CFD: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted tobe involved in complement activation and proteolysis. Predicted to act upstreamof or with...
CHRNA1: Enables acetylcholine-gated monoatomic cation-selective channel activity.Involved in several processes, including muscle cell cellular homeostasis;neuronal action potential; and skeletal muscle tissue growth. ...
CHRNB1: Enables transmitter-gated monoatomic ion channel activity involvedin regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential. Contributes to acetylcholinereceptor activity. Involved in several processes, includin...
CHRNG: Predicted to enable acetylcholine-gated monoatomic cation-selectivechannel activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingchemical synaptic transmission; monoatomic ion transmembrane transport; andregulation of membrane potential. Predict...
CKB: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding acti...
CKM: Predicted to enable creatine kinase activity. Predicted to be involvedin phosp...
CKMT2: Predicted to enable creatine kinase activity. Predicted ...
CLU: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity; low-densitylipoprotein particle receptor binding activity; and misfolded protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofcellular component organization; regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Located in several cel...
CNN3: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesi...
COL15A1: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringtensile strength. Predicted to be involved in a...
COL1A1: Enables identical protein binding activity; platelet-derived growthfactor binding activity; and protease binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including collagen biosynthetic process; collagen fibril organization;and skin morphogenesis. Acts upstream of or within skeletal system development.Located in extracellul...
COL3A1: Enables integrin binding activity; platelet-derived growth factorbinding activity; and protease binding activity. An extracellular matrix structuralconstituent. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptorsi...
COL4A2: An extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensilestrength. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation and negative re...
COL6A2: Enables collagen binding activity. Predicted to be involved in celladhesion and response to glucose. Located in extracellul...
COL6A3: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent conferringtensile strength. Predicted to be involved in muscle organ developm...
COX6A2: Predicted to enable enzyme regulator activity. Predicted to be involvedin mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to ox...
COX7A1: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to beinvolved in mitochondrial respirasome assembly and regulation of...
CRAT: Enables acyl-CoA oxidase activity and carnitine O-acetyltransferaseactivity. Involved in carnitine metaboli...
CRYAB: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;protein homodimerization activity; and unfolded protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of DNA-templatedtranscription; negative regulation of ...
CSRP3: Enables identical protein binding activity and telethonin binding activity.A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in several processes, includingcardiac muscle contraction; cardiac muscle hypertrophy; and detection of musclestretc...
CTF1: Predicted to enable cytokine activity. Involved in positive regulationof tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protei...
DAPK2: Enables ATP binding activity; calmodulin binding activity; and identicalprotein binding activity. Involved in sev...
DENND2B: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Acts upstreamof or within posi...
DES: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and identical protein bindingactivity. Involved in intermediate filament organization. Located in severalcellula...
DMD: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and dystroglycan bindingactivity. A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in several processes,including cardiac muscle contraction; positive regulation of neuron differentiation;and positive regulation of n...
DMPK: Enables ATP binding activity; myosin phosphatase regulator activity;and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several...
DTNA: Predicted to enable phosphatase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin synaptic signaling. Located in cell...
EFS: Enables protein domain specific binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin actin filament reorganization; cell migrati...
EIF4A2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in negative regulat...
ENO3: Predicted to enable phosphopyruvate hydratase activity. ...
EPHB3: Enables ephrin receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includingephrin recept...
ERBB3: Enables several functions, including ErbB-3 class receptor bindingactivity; neuregulin binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in several processes, including extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathwayin absence of ligand; phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signali...
FABP3: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and oleic acid bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cholesterolhomeostasis; lipid transport; and phospholipid homeostasis. P...
FDPS: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in farnesyl ...
FGF2: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity;nuclear receptor coactivator activity; and signaling receptor binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell populationproliferation; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; andregulation of cell migration...
FHL1: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition;regulation of membrane depolarization; and regu...
FKBP1B: Enables several functions, including FK506 binding activity; calciumchannel inhibitor activity; and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity.Involved in several processes, inclu...
FLII: Enables actin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actin cytoskeletonorganizat...
FOXO4: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and identical...
FST: Enables activin binding activity and activin receptor antagonist activity.Involved in hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation; negative regulationof activin receptor signaling pathway;...
FXYD1: Predicted to enable sodium channel regulator activity and transmembranetransporter binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulationof protein glutathionylation; regulatio...
GAA: Enables alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Involved in several processes,including glycogen cat...
GABARAPL2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved innegative regulation of proteas...
GADD45B: Involved in positive regulation of JNK cascade; positive regulation...
GJA5: Enables gap junction channel activity. Involved in several processes,including cell communication by electrical coupling involved in cardiac conduction;circulatory system development; and regul...
GNAO1: Predicted to enable several functions, including G protein-coupledreceptor binding activity; G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding activity;and potassium channel activator activity. Predicted to be involved in adenylatecyclase-modulating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; dopaminereceptor ...
GPX3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity;and selenium binding activity. Predicted to be involved in hydrogen peroxidecatabolic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular oxida...
GSN: Enables calcium ion binding activity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity;and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin filament organizatio...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity; heparin binding activity; and transmembranereceptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes,including epidermal gro...
HDAC5: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity.Contributes to transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including ...
HRC: Enables ATPase binding activity; calcium ion binding activity; and transmembranetransporter binding activity. Involved in several process...
HSPB2: Predicted to enable unfolded protein binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in protein ...
HSPB8: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in cellular responseto unfolded protein and positive regulation of aggrephagy...
IFRD1: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcriptionfactor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in myoblast fate determination.Predicted to ac...
IGF1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulationof macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of signal transduction.Acts upstream of or within cell activation. Located in extr...
IGFBP3: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and proteintyrosine phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, includingnegative regulation of smooth muscle cell migration; negative regulation ofsmooth muscle cell proliferation; and positive regulation of myoblast differentiation.Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cell ...
IGFBP7: Predicted to enable insulin-like growth factor binding activity. Predictedto be an extracellular mat...
ITGA7: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Predicted to contributeto laminin binding activity. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation andheterotypic cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to be located in several cellularcom...
ITGB1: Enables several functions, including collagen binding activity involvedin cell-matrix adhesion; enzyme binding activity; and fibronectin bindingactivity. Contributes to C-X3-C chemokine binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; cell-cell adhesionmediated b...
ITGB4: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Contributes toinsulin-like growth factor I binding activity and neuregulin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including hemides...
ITGB5: Predicted to enable integrin binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including cell surface re...
KCNH1: Enables delayed rectifier potassium channel activity and phosphatidylinositolbisphosphate binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellularresponse to calcium ion; phosphatidy...
KCNH2: Enables several functions, including C3HC4-type RING finger domainbinding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and voltage-gated potassiumchannel activity. Involved in several processes, including membrane repolarizationduring ventricular cardiac muscle cell a...
KIFC3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in epithelia...
KLF5: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA ...
LAMA2: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in animal organ morphogenesis; axon guidance; and tissue development.Predicted to act up...
LARGE1: Enables glucuronosyltransferase activity; manganese ion binding activity;and xylosyltransferase activity. Involved in pro...
LDB3: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin actin cytoskeleton organization; heart development; and muscle structuredevelopment. Predic...
LPIN1: Enables phosphatidate phosphatase activity. Involved in phosphatidicacid metabolic ...
LSP1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin cellular defense response. Predi...
MAPK12: Enables magnesium ion binding activity and protein serine/threoninekinase activity. Involved in myoblast ...
MAPRE3: Enables identical protein binding activity and protein kinase bindingactivity. Involved in positive regulation of protein kinas...
MB: Predicted to enable oxygen binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin oxygen transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within several...
MEF2A: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and proteinheterodimerization activity. Involve...
MEF2C: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-bindingtranscription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and proteinheterodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including nega...
MEF2D: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatoryregion sequence-specific DNA binding ac...
MRAS: Enables GTP-dependent protein binding activity and GTPase activity.Involved in Ras protein ...
MYBPC3: Enables identical protein binding activity and myosin heavy chainbinding activity. A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in ventricularcardiac muscle tissue...
MYBPH: Predicted to be a structural constituent of muscle. Predicted to be...
MYF6: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including positive regulation of celldifferentiation; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II;and skeletal muscle cel...
MYH1: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and microfilamentmotor activity. P...
MYH11: A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in cardiac muscle celldevelopment and elastic fiber assembly. Located in extrace...
MYH2: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and microfilamentmotor activity. Involved in muscle contracti...
MYH3: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity; actin filament binding activity; andmicrofilament motor activity. Involved in ATP metabolic process and skeletalmuscle ...
MYH4: Enables double-stranded RNA binding acti...
MYH7: Enables microfilament motor activity. Involved in several processes,including regulation of heart contraction; regulation of skeletal muscle contraction;...
MYH8: Enables ATP binding activity; ATP hydrolysis activity; and microfilamentmotor activity. Involved in ATP metabolic process; muscle filament slidi...
MYH9: Enables several functions, including adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity;integrin binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Contributesto actin filament binding activity and microfilament motor activity. Involvedin several processes, including actin cytoskeleton organization; myeloid celldifferentiation; and negative regul...
MYL1: A structural constituent of muscle. ...
MYL11: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be astructural consti...
MYL2: Enables actin monomer binding activity and calcium ion binding activity.A structural constituent of muscle. Involved in negative regulation of cellgrowth...
MYL3: Enables actin monomer binding activity. Involved in several processes,including cardiac muscle contraction; regula...
MYL4: Enables actin filament binding activity and actin monomer binding activity.Involved in cardiac muscle contraction; posi...
MYL6B: Predicted to be a structural constituent of muscle. Predicted to beinvo...
MYL7: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to...
MYLK: Enables myosin light chain kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including aorta smooth muscle tissue morphogenesis; bleb assembly; and cellularhypotonic respons...
MYO1C: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and small GTPase bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation ofprotein targeting to membrane; positive regu...
MYOG: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase II transcr...
MYOM1: Enables identical protein binding activity and kinase binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of gene expressio...
MYOM2: Enables kinase binding activity. Invol...
MYOZ1: Enables FATZ binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including negative regulation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade;negative regulation of skeletal mu...
NAV2: Enables 3''-5'' DNA helicase activity. Predicted to be involved in cerebellarcortex development. Predicted to act ...
NCAM1: Predicted to enable virus receptor activity. Predicted to be involvedin commissural neuron axon guidance; modulation of chemical synaptic transmission;and regulation of semaphorin-plexin signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstreamof or within several processes, including homotypic ce...
NOS1: Enables nitric-oxide synthase activity. Involved in several processes,including multicellular organismal response to stress; positive regulationof peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; and vasodilation. Located in n...
NOTCH1: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivatoractivity; and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including heart development; negative regulation...
NQO1: Enables NADH dehydrogenase (quinone) activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell redox homeostasis;removal of superoxide radicals; and vitamin E ...
OCEL1: Predicted to be involved in bicellular tight junction assembly. Predictedto be lo...
PC: Enables identical protein binding activity and pyruvate carboxylase activity.Involved in several processes, including nicotinamide...
PDE4DIP: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in astral microtubuleorganization; positive regulation of micr...
PDLIM7: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and muscle alpha-actininbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in actin cyt...
PFKM: Enables several functions, including 6-phosphofructokinase activity;ATP binding activity; and fructose binding activity. Involved in several processes,including fructose...
PGAM2: Enables identical protein binding activity and phosphoglycerate mutaseactivity. Involved...
PICK1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity;and membrane curvature sensor activity. Involved in ...
PKIA: Enables cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor activity; molecularfunction inhibitor activity; and protein kinase A c...
PLXNB2: Predicted to enable semaphorin receptor activity. Involved in homophiliccell adhesion via plasma membrane adhe...
PPFIA4: Predicted to be involved in synapse organization. Predicted to belocated in synaps...
PPP1R3C: Predicted to enable several functions, including [phosphorylase]phosphatase activity; glycogen binding activity; and protein phosphatase 1binding...
PRNP: Enables several functions, including amyloid-beta binding activity;cuprous ion binding activity; and molecular condensate scaffold activity.Involved in several processes, including calcium-mediated signaling usingintracellular calcium source; cellular response to am...
PSEN2: Predicted to enable endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes,including amyloid-beta formation; mitochondrion-endoplasmic reticulum membranetethering; and pro...
PTGIS: Enables heme binding activity and prostaglandin-I synthase activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus;positive regulation of e...
PTP4A3: Predicted to enable protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Involvedin positive regulation of NIK/NF-kappaB signaling; positive r...
PVALB: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin chemical synaptic transmission; cochlea development; and gene expression....
PYGM: Enables glycogen phosphorylase activity. Involved in glycogen c...
RB1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific bindingactivity; enzyme binding activity; and importin-alpha family protein bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including chromosome organization;negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation ofchromosome organization. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation ofgene ...
REEP1: Enables microtubule binding activity and olfactory receptor bindingactivity. Involved in endoplasmic reticulum tubular network org...
RIT1: Enables GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in Ras proteinsignal transduction. Predicted to ...
RYR1: Enables calcium-induced calcium release activity and ryanodine-sensitivecalcium-release channel activity. Involved in cellular response to caffeine;release of sequestere...
SCD: Enables iron ion binding activity and stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity.In...
SCHIP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of hippo signaling. Predicted to act upstream ...
SGCA: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin muscle contraction and muscle organ development. Predicted to be locatedin sev...
SGCD: Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle tissue development and heartcontraction. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includingcalcium-mediated...
SGCG: Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle tissue development and heartcontraction. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane....
SH2B1: Predicted to enable transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinaseadaptor activity. Acts upstream of...
SH3BGR: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predi...
SIRT2: Enables several functions, including acyltransferase activity, transferringgroups other than amino-acyl groups; enzyme binding activity; and proteinlysine deacetylase...
SLC6A8: Enables creatine:sodium symporter activity. Involved in creatine transmembranetr...
SLN: Predicted to enable ATPase binding activity and enzyme inhibitor activity.Involved...
SMTN: Predicted to enable actin binding activity. Predicted to be a structuralconstituent of muscle. Predicted to be involved in actin cytoskeleton organization.Predicted to act upstream of...
SOD3: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Predicted to be involved in removalof superoxide radicals. Predicted to act upstream of or within response tohypoxia. Located in collagen-containin...
SORBS1: Enables insulin receptor binding activity and signaling receptor complexadaptor activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, includingfocal adhesion assembly; positive regulation of biosynthetic process; andpositi...
SORBS3: Enables vinculin binding activity. Involved in posi...
SPARC: Enables calcium ion binding activity and collagen binding activity.Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of angiogenesis;negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; and positive regulationof ...
SPDEF: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of transcription ...
SPEG: Predicted to enable protein kinase activity. Predicted to be involvedin muscle cell differentiation. Predicted to act upstream o...
SPHK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; calmodulinbinding activity; and lipid kinase activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positivere...
SPTAN1: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actincytoskeleton organization. L...
SSPN: Predicted to be involved in cell adhes...
STC2: Enables enzyme binding activity; heme binding activity; and proteinhomodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulat...
SVIL: Enables actin filament binding activity. Involved in skeletal muscletissue development. L...
SYNGR2: Predicted to be involved in regulated exocytosis and synaptic vesiclemembr...
TAGLN: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Involved in epithe...
TCAP: Enables several functions, including BMP binding activity; cytoskeletalprotein binding activity; and titin Z domain binding activity. A structuralconstituent of muscle. Invo...
TEAD4: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor a...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor bindingactivity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signalingpathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positiveregulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial tomesenchymal transition; negative regulation o...
TNNC1: Enables several functions, including calcium-dependent protein bindingactivity; cytoskeletal protein binding activity; and protein homodimerizationactivity. Involved in car...
TNNC2: Contributes to actin binding activity. Invo...
TNNI1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and metal ion binding activity.Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle contraction and skeletal musclec...
TNNI2: Enables troponin T binding activity. Contributes to actin binding activity.Involved in positive regulation of DNA-template...
TNNT1: Enables tropomyosin binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof mu...
TNNT2: Enables cytoskeletal protein binding activity and identical proteinbinding activity. Contributes to microfilament motor activity. Involved inseveral processes, including cardiac muscle contrac...
TNNT3: Enables calcium-dependent protein binding activity; troponin C bindingactivity; and troponin I binding activity. Contributes to actin binding activityand tropomyosin binding ac...
TPD52L1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in G2/M transitionof m...
TPM2: Enables actin binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved in regulation of ATP-dependent activity. Predicted to be ...
TPM3: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in actin filament organization and muscle...
TSC2: Enables several functions, including GTPase activator activity; Hsp90protein binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in anoikis;negative regulation of TOR signaling; and positive regulation of macroautophagy.Located in several cellular components, including Golgi appar...
VIPR1: Enables peptide hormone binding activity and vasoactive intestinalpolypeptide receptor activity. Involved in G protein-coupl...
WWTR1: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes,including hippo...
////
ABCB7: Enables ABC-type iron-sulfur cluster transporter activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including iron-sulfur cluster export from the mitochondrion; positive regulation of heme bi...
ACAA1: Enables acetate CoA-transferase activity and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity. Involved in bile acid metabolic process; fatt...
ACAA2: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity and acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia; negative regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeabilit...
ACADM: Enables identical protein binding activity and medium-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process and fatty acid cat...
ACADSB: Enables 2-methylacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; identical protein binding activity; and short-chain-acyl-CoA dehydroge...
ACADVL: Enables acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity; flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in epithelial cell differentiation and fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA deh...
ACAT1: Enables acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity and potassium ion binding activity. Involved in isoleucine catabolic process; ketone body catabolic process; and purine nucleosid...
ACO2: Enables aconitate hydratase activity and iron ion binding activity. Acts upstream of or within citrate metabolic process and tric...
AFG3L2: Enables metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including calcium import into the mitochondrion; membrane protein proteolysis; and mitochondr...
AIFM1: Enables DNA binding activity; FAD binding activity; and NAD(P)H oxidase H2O2-forming activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; mitochondrion organization; and neuron differentiation...
ALAS1: Enables 5-aminolevulinate synthase activity and identical protein binding activity. Inv...
ALDH6A1: Enables methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (acylating) activity. Involved in thymine ...
ATP1B1: Enables ATPase activator activity; ATPase binding activity; and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular monoatomic cation homeostasis; positive regulation of cation transmembrane transpor...
ATP5F1A: Enables MHC class I protein binding activity and angiostatin binding activity. Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in negative regulation of endothelial cell proliferation; positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration; and proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP synthe...
ATP5F1B: Enables MHC class I protein binding activity; angiostatin binding activity; and proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in several processes, including positive regulat...
ATP5F1C: Enables RNA binding activity. Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-dri...
ATP5F1D: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex assembly and proton motive force-driven mitoch...
ATP5F1E: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Part of mito...
ATP5MC1: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity and proton transmembrane transporter activity. Pred...
ATP5MC2: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity and proton transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in proton motive force-driven ATP synthesis. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial outer membrane. P...
ATP5MC3: Predicted to enable lipid binding activity and proton transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in proton motive force-driven ATP synthesis. Pr...
ATP5ME: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mi...
ATP5MF: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial...
ATP5MG: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP s...
ATP5PB: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Located in mitochon...
ATP5PD: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondr...
ATP5PF: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP syn...
ATP5PO: Contributes to proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton motive force-driven mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Located in mitochon...
ATP6AP1: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to increased oxygen le...
ATP6V0B: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Pr...
ATP6V0C: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of ...
ATP6V0E1: Enables proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in proton transmembrane transport. Predicted to be located in endosome membrane; lys...
ATP6V1C1: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Predicted to be involved in proton transmembrane trans...
ATP6V1D: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Involved in cilium assembly and protein localizatio...
ATP6V1E1: Enables ATPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in synaptic vesicle lumen acidification. Predicted to act upstream of or within proton transmembrane transport. Locate...
ATP6V1F: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. Predicted to be involved in synaptic...
ATP6V1G1: Enables ATPase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to increased oxygen levels and intracellular iron...
ATP6V1H: Predicted to enable proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotati...
BAX: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; channel activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including apoptotic signaling pathway; mitochondrion organization; and positive regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum membrane; mitochondrial outer membrane; and nuclear envelo...
BCKDHA: Enables 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (2-methylpropanoyl-transferring) activity. Involved in branched-chain amino acid catabolic proc...
BDH2: Enables 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity and NAD binding activity. Involved in...
CASP7: Enables RNA binding activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to staurosporine; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and prot...
COX10: Enables farnesyltranstransferase activity. Involved in heme A biosynthetic process and respiratory chain complex IV assembly. Locate...
COX11: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity. Predicted to be involved in electron transport chain. Predicted to act upstream of or ...
COX15: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in heme A biosynthetic process and respiratory chain complex IV assembly. Acts upstream of with a positive effect on proton transmembrane transport. Located in mit...
COX17: Enables copper chaperone activity and cuprous ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase a...
COX4I1: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxyge...
COX5A: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen. Located ...
COX5B: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial elec...
COX6A1: Predicted to enable enzyme regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxyge...
COX6B1: Involved in substantia nigra development. Located in mitochondrial respirator...
COX6C: Predicted to be involved in generation of precursor metabolites an...
COX7A2: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial respirasome assem...
COX7A2L: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial respiras...
COX7B: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Involved in central nervous system development. Located in mitoc...
COX7C: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrome c to oxygen. Located in mitochon...
COX8A: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in generation of precursor metabolites and e...
CPT1A: Enables carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. Involved in carnitine metabolic process; epithelial cell differentiation; and long-chain fatty acid metabolic process. Loc...
CS: Enables citrate (Si)-synthase activity. Involved in carbohy...
CYB5A: Enables enzyme binding activity. Predicted to be involved in electron transport chain and proton transmembrane transport. Located in cytosol; intracellula...
CYB5R3: Enables FAD binding activity and cytochrome-b5 reductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. Contributes to nitrite reductase (NO-forming) activity. Involved in nitric oxide biosynthetic process. Located in several cellular components, inclu...
CYC1: Predicted to enable heme binding activity; metal ion binding activity; and ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron...
CYCS: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Involved in activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process by cytochrome c. Located in apoptosome; mitochondrial in...
DECR1: Enables 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity; NADPH binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Inv...
DLAT: Enables dihydrolipoyllysine-residue acetyltransferase activity and identical protein binding activity. Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA bios...
DLD: Enables dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate; branched-chain amino acid catabolic process; and histone succinylation. Located in m...
DLST: Enables dihydrolipoyllysine-residue succinyltransferase activity. Involved in histone succinylation and tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in several cellular components...
ECH1: Predicted to enable delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase activity. Predicted to be...
ECHS1: Enables enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Involved in fa...
ECI1: Predicted to enable delta(3)-delta(2)-enoyl-CoA isomerase activity and enoyl-CoA hydratase a...
ETFA: Enables electron transfer activity and flavin adenine dinucleotide binding activity. Involved in amino acid catabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogena...
ETFB: Enables electron transfer activity. Involved in amino acid catabolic process; fatty acid beta-oxidation using acyl-CoA dehydrogenase; and respiratory electron...
ETFDH: Enables 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity; electron-transferring-flavoprotein dehydrogenase activity; and ubiquinone binding activity. Involved in electron transport...
FDX1: Enables 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity and electron transfer activity. Involved in...
FH: Enables fumarate hydratase activity and histone binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response; dicarboxylic acid metabolic process; and positive regulation of double-strand break repair via nonhomol...
FXN: Enables several functions, including 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity; ferroxidase activity; and iron ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including iron-sulfur cluster assembly; negative regulation of release of cytochrome c from mitochondria; and posi...
GLUD1: Enables anion binding activity and glutamate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in glutamate biosynthetic process; glutamate catabolic process; and positive regulation of insulin secre...
GOT2: Enables L-aspartate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity. Involved in aspartate catabolic process; fatty acid transport; and re...
GPI: Enables glucose-6-phosphate isomerase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in glucose 6-phosphate metabolic process; positive regulation of endothelial cell migration; and positive regulation of immunoglobulin production. Located in c...
GPX4: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and phospholipid-hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase activity. Involved in arachidonic acid metabolic process; lipoxygenase pathway; and protein polymerizati...
GRPEL1: Enables identical protein binding activity and unfolded protein binding activity. Predicted to be invo...
HADHA: Predicted to enable enoyl-CoA hydratase activity and long-chain-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Involved in cardiolipin acyl-chain remodeling and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in mitochondrial fatty acid be...
HADHB: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrion. Implicat...
HCCS: Enables heme binding activity and holocytochrome-c synthase activity. Involved in cytochrome c-heme linkage. Located in m...
HSD17B10: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor and tRNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including carboxylic acid metabolic process; mitochondrial tRNA processing; and protein homotetramerization. Located in mitochondria...
HSPA9: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in erythrocyte differentiation; iron-sulfur cluster assembly; and negative regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. Located in mitochondrial nucleoi...
HTRA2: Enables identical protein binding activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interferon-beta; positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway; and positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand. Located in severa...
IDH1: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity; magnesium ion binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in cytosol and ...
IDH2: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity. Predicted to be involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process; NADP metabolic process; and isocitrate metabolic process. Located in mitochondrion. Implicated in D-2-hyd...
IDH3A: Enables isocitrate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid ...
IDH3B: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity and isocitrate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in tricarboxylic a...
IDH3G: Enables magnesium ion binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Lo...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cristae formation. Lo...
ISCA1: Predicted to enable 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding activity. Predicted to be involved in iron-sulfur cluster assembly and protein maturation by iron-sulfur cluster t...
ISCU: Enables molecular adaptor activity; protein homodimerization activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; negative regulation of iron ion import across plasma membran...
LDHA: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in l...
LDHB: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in lactate metabolic process and pyruvate ...
LRPPRC: Enables beta-tubulin binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of mitochondrial translation. Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of mitochondrial RNA catabolic proce...
MAOB: Enables monoamine oxidase activity and primary amine oxidase activity. Involved in substantia nigra ...
MDH1: Predicted to enable L-malate dehydrogenase activity and NAD binding activity. Involved in NADH metabolic process and NAD...
MDH2: Enables L-malate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in aerobic respiration and malate metabolic pr...
MFN2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrion organization; positive regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell apoptotic process; and positive regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation. Acts upstream of or within protein...
MGST3: Enables glutathione peroxidase activity; identical protein binding activity; and leukotriene-C4 synthase activity. Involved in leu...
MPC1: Predicted to enable pyruvate transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial pyruvate transmembrane transport. Predicted to act upstream...
MRPL11: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in translation. Lo...
MRPL15: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in translation. Predicted to act upstream of or within cellular...
MRPL34: Predicted to be a structural constituent of ribosome. Predicted to be involved in tra...
MRPL35: Predicted to be a structural constituent of ribosome. Predicted to be involved in tra...
MRPS11: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in maturation of SSU-rRNA from tricistronic rRNA transcript (SSU-rRNA, 5.8S rRNA, LSU-rRNA...
MRPS12: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochond...
MRPS15: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial translation. Located i...
MRPS22: A structural constituent of ribosome. Located in mitochondrion. Part of mitochondrial small ribosomal...
MRPS30: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in apoptotic process....
MTRF1: Predicted to enable translation release factor activity. Predicted to be involved in...
MTRR: Enables NADPH-hemoprotein reductase activity; [methionine synthase] reductase activity; and nucleotide binding activity. Involved in folic acid metabolic process; negative regulation of cystathionine beta-synthase activity; and sulfur amino acid metabolic process. Located in inter...
MTX2: Involved in mitochondrial transport. Located in ...
NDUFA1: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitocho...
NDUFA2: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Part of mitochondrial res...
NDUFA3: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mito...
NDUFA4: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in positive regulation of cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Located in mitochondrial membrane...
NDUFA5: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Lo...
NDUFA6: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly and response to oxidative stress. Located in mitochond...
NDUFA7: Predicted to be a structural constituent of ribosome. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquin...
NDUFA8: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner membr...
NDUFA9: Enables NADH dehydrogenase activity. Involved in circadian rhythm and mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane;...
NDUFAB1: Predicted to enable acyl binding activity; acyl carrier activity; and fatty acid binding activity. Involved in [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; and...
NDUFB1: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I asse...
NDUFB2: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mito...
NDUFB3: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner membr...
NDUFB4: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly and response to oxidative stress. Located...
NDUFB5: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I ass...
NDUFB6: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled electron transport and mitochondrial re...
NDUFB7: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner mem...
NDUFB8: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial inner membrane. Part of mitochondrial res...
NDUFC1: Predicted to enable NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain compl...
NDUFC2: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Part o...
NDUFS1: Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in several processes, including ATP metabolic process; mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; and mitochondrion organization. Located in mitochondrial inner mem...
NDUFS2: Enables oxygen sensor activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in cellular response to oxygen levels; mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; and response to oxidative stress. Locat...
NDUFS3: Enables NADH dehydrogenase activity. Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; and negative regulatio...
NDUFS4: Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; positive regulation of fibroblast proliferation; and response to cAMP. Acts upstream o...
NDUFS6: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including fatty acid metabolic process; mitochondrion organization; and respir...
NDUFS7: Enables NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase activity. Involved in mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone and mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I ...
NDUFS8: Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly; and respons...
NDUFV1: Predicted to enable several functions, including 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding activity; NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity; and nucleotide binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial ATP synthesis...
NDUFV2: Contributes to NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Involved in cardiac muscle tissue development; mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to ubiquinone; and nervous system development. Located in c...
NNT: Enables NADP binding activity. Involved in reactive oxygen species metabolic proce...
NQO2: Enables several functions, including anion binding activity; dihydronicotinamide riboside quinone reductase activity; and melatonin binding activity. Involved i...
OAT: Enables identical protein binding activity and ornithine(lysine) transaminase activity. Predicted to be involved in arginine catabolic process to gl...
OGDH: Enables oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (succinyl-transferring) activity and thiamine pyrophosphate binding activity. Involved in 2-oxoglutarate metabolic pro...
OPA1: Enables GTPase activity; cardiolipin binding activity; and phosphatidic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including GTP metabolic process; mitochondrion organization; and negative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or within mitochondrion organization. Located in cyt...
OXA1L: Enables mitochondrial ribosome binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including aerobic respiration; negative...
PDHA1: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate. L...
PDHB: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosyntheti...
PDHX: Contributes to pyruvate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. Involved in acetyl-CoA biosynthetic process from pyruvate. Located in mitochondrial...
PDK4: Enables ATP binding activity and pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including insulin receptor signaling pathway; ne...
PDP1: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in peptidyl-threonine dephosphorylation. Predicted to be located i...
PHB2: Enables amide binding activity; protein dimerization activity; and sphingolipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including RIG-I signaling pathway; positive regulation of cell cycle phase transi...
PHYH: Enables L-ascorbic acid binding activity; ferrous iron binding activity; and phytanoyl-CoA dioxygenase activity. Involved in carboxylic acid metabolic process and isopren...
PMPCA: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in protein processing involved in protein ...
POLR2F: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-directed 5'-3' RNA polymerase activity. Involved in ...
POR: Enables NADPH-hemoprotein reductase activity. Involved in cellular organofluorine metabolic process; electron transport chain; and positive regulation of monooxygen...
PRDX3: Enables several functions, including cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process; identical protein binding activity; and thioredoxin peroxidase activity. Involved in several processes, including peptidyl-cysteine oxidation; pos...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predict...
RHOT1: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial outer membrane permeabili...
RHOT2: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. Involved in cellular homeostasis; mitochondrial outer m...
SDHA: Enables succinate dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity. Contributes to succinate dehydrogenase activity. Involved in nervous system development; respiratory electron transport chain; and succinate metabolic process. Locate...
SDHB: Predicted to enable iron-sulfur cluster binding activity and ubiquinone binding activity. Predicted to be involved in aerobic respiration and respiratory electron transport chain. Located in mitoch...
SDHC: Predicted to enable heme binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, succinate to ubiquinone. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial inner membrane. Predicted to be part of mitoc...
SDHD: Predicted to enable heme binding activity and ubiquinone binding activity. Involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in mitochondrial...
SLC25A11: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including C4-dicarboxylate transport; phosphate i...
SLC25A12: Enables amino acid transmembrane transporter activity; calcium ion binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in amino acid transmembrane transport; malate-aspartate shuttle; and respon...
SLC25A20: Enables acyl carnitine transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in carnitine transmembrane transport and mitochondrial transport. Predicted to ...
SLC25A3: Predicted to enable inorganic phosphate transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted ...
SLC25A4: Enables ATP:ADP antiporter activity. Involved in mitochondrial ADP transmembrane transport; mitochondrial ATP transmembrane transport; and negative regulation of necroptotic process. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane. ...
SLC25A5: Enables adenine nucleotide transmembrane transporter activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in adenine nucleotide transport; negative regulation of mitochondrial outer memb...
SLC25A6: Predicted to enable ATP:ADP antiporter activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial ATP transmembrane transport and negative regula...
SUCLA2: Predicted to enable succinate-CoA ligase (ADP-forming) activity and succinate-CoA ligase (GDP-forming) activity. Predicted to be involved in su...
SUCLG1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle. Located in suc...
SUPV3L1: Enables helicase activity; nucleic acid binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including mitochondrial RNA metabolic process; mit...
SURF1: Predicted to enable cytochrome-c oxidase activity. Involved in mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase assembly. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial respirasome...
TCIRG1: Predicted to enable ATPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in macroautophagy; protein catabolic process in the vacuole; and vacuolar acidification. Predicted to act upstream of ...
TIMM10: Enables membrane insertase activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in protein insertion into mitochondrial inner membrane. L...
TIMM13: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in protein insertion into mitochondrial inner membrane. L...
TIMM17A: Predicted to contribute to protein transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in protein import into mitochondrial matr...
TIMM50: Enables interleukin-2 receptor binding activity; phosphoprotein phosphatase activity; and ribonucleoprotein complex binding activity. Involved in mitochondrial membrane organization and protein dephosphorylation. Acts upstream of or wit...
TIMM8B: Predicted to enable protein transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in prot...
TIMM9: Enables membrane insertase activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Involved in protein insertion into mitochondrial inner membrane. L...
TOMM22: Predicted to enable protein transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in protein insertion into mitochondrial ou...
TOMM70: Predicted to enable mitochondrion targeting sequence binding activity. Predicted to contribute to protein transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in several processes, including ce...
UQCR10: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol t...
UQCR11: Predicted to enable electron transfer activity. Predicted to be involved in generation of p...
UQCRB: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol to cytochrome c. Located in mitochondrial respirator...
UQCRC1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in oxidative phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within mitochondrial electron ...
UQCRC2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in oxidative phosphorylation. Located in mitochondrial inner membrane and nuc...
UQCRFS1: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity. Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III assembly and respiratory electron transport chain. Located in mitochondrial...
UQCRH: Predicted to enable ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial ...
UQCRQ: Predicted to be involved in mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol to cytochrome c. Located in mitochon...
VDAC1: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity; phosphatidylcholine binding activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including monoatomic anion transport; negative regulation of calcium import into the mitochondrion; and positive regulation of parkin-m...
VDAC2: Enables several functions, including cholesterol binding activity; phosphatidylcholine binding activity; and voltage-gated monoatomic anion channel activity. Involved in binding acti...
VDAC3: Predicted to enable voltage-gated monoatomic anion channel activity. Predicted to be involved in adenine transport. Predicted to act upstr...
////
ABAT: Enables identical protein binding activity and pyridoxal phosphate binding activity. Contributes to 4-aminobutyrate transaminase activity. Involved...
ABCC5: Enables several functions, including ABC-type xenobiotic transporter activity; glutathione transmembrane transporter activity; and heme transmembrane transporte...
ABHD4: Predicted to enable lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity and lysophospholipase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine metabolic process; ...
ACVR1B: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; activin receptor activity, type I; and inhibin binding activity. Contributes to activin binding activity; activin receptor activity; and growth factor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cel...
ADA: Enables 2'-deoxyadenosine deaminase activity; adenosine deaminase activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of adenosine receptor signaling pathway; nucleobase-containing small molecule metabolic process; and regulation of cell-cell adhesion mediated b...
AEN: Enables exonuclease activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in respons...
AK1: Enables adenylate kinase activity and nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Involved in nucleoside tri...
ALOX15B: Enables metal ion binding activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen, incorporation of two atoms of oxygen. Involved in several processes, inc...
ANKRA2: Enables enzyme binding activity and low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding activity. Involved...
APAF1: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process and nucleotide binding activity. Involved in activation of cysteine-type endopept...
APP: Enables several functions, including PTB domain binding activity; protein dimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; modulation of chemical synaptic transmission; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within regulation of gene expression. Locat...
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA...
BAIAP2: Enables identical protein binding activity and proline-rich region binding activity. Involved in regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization and response to bact...
BAK1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity; protein homodimerization activity; and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptid...
BAX: Enables several functions, including BH3 domain binding activity; channel activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including apoptotic signaling pathway; mitochondrion organization; and positive regulation of apoptotic process. Located in several cellular components, including e...
BLCAP: Involved in apoptotic nuclear ...
BMP2: Enables several functions, including BMP receptor binding activity; co-receptor binding activity; and phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wit...
BTG1: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of endothelial cell differentiation; and positive regulation ...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulation of translation; and neuron project...
CASP1: Enables several functions, including CARD domain binding activity; cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; positive regulation of signal tr...
CCND2: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic process; positive regulation of cell cycle; and positive regulation of cell population proliferation. Located in several cellular components, including chromatin; cyclin D2-CDK4 complex; a...
CCND3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Located in cyclin D3...
CCNG1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in mitotic cell cycle phase transition and regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Predicted to be located in nucleoplasm. Predicted to be ...
CCNK: Enables RNA polymerase II CTD heptapeptide repeat kinase activity; cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includin...
CCP110: Involved in centriole replication; negative regulation of cilium assembl...
CD81: Enables cholesterol binding activity; signaling receptor binding activity; and virus receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of immune response; positive regulation of ly...
CD82: Located in plasma membrane. Biomarker of breast carcinoma; rep...
CDH13: Enables cadherin binding activity and low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity. Involved in several processes, including Ras protein signal transduction; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and r...
CDK5R1: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in positive regulation of signaling receptor activity; protein...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein kinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CDKN2A: Enables several functions, including MDM2/MDM4 family protein binding activity; NF-kappaB binding activity; and enzyme inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process; regulation of protein localization; and regulation of protein metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protei...
CDKN2AIP: Enables p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA damage ...
CDKN2B: Enables cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including megakaryocyte differentiation; positive regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor...
CEBPA: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase I transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and STAT family protein binding activity. Involved in sever...
CGRRF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be i...
CLCA2: Predicted to enable intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. Predicted to be involved in monoatomic ion tra...
COQ8A: Enables ADP binding activity and kinase activity. Involved in phosphorylation...
CSRNP2: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Predicted to be invo...
CTSD: Enables peptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including lipoprotein catabolic process; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase ac...
CTSF: Predicted to enable cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in proteolysis involved in protein ...
CYFIP2: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity; apopto...
DCXR: Enables L-xylulose reductase (NADP+) activity; identical protein binding activity; and oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar c...
DDB2: Contributes to damaged DNA binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in DNA repair and protein ubiquitinati...
DDIT3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding acti...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defens...
DEF6: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in vesicle-me...
DGKA: Enables diacylglycerol kinase activity and lipid binding activity. Involved in di...
DNTTIP2: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be invo...
DRAM1: Involved in regulation ...
EI24: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity. Acts upstream of o...
ELP1: Enables protein self-association. Predicted to be involved in tRNA wobble base 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2...
EPHA2: Enables growth factor binding activity; molecular function activator activity; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including...
EPHX1: Enables cis-stilbene-oxide hydrolase activity and epoxide hydrolase activity. Involved in arachidonic acid metabolic process and epoxide metabolic process. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic...
EPS8L2: Enables actin binding activity. Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in Rho protein signal transduction; positive reg...
ERCC5: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; RNA polymerase II complex binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA repair; negative regulation of apoptotic process; and r...
F2R: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and thrombin-activated receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory resp...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in ap...
FAS: Enables calmodulin binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein metabolic process; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within apoptotic process. Located in several cellu...
FBXW7: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; phosphothreonine residue binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-d...
FDXR: Predicted to enable NADPH-adrenodoxin reductase activity. ...
FGF13: Enables protein kinase activator activity and sodium channel regulator activity. Acts ...
FOS: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; R-SMAD binding activity; and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ca...
FOXO3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; beta-catenin binding activity; and mitochondrial transcription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of regulatory T cell differentiation; regulation of macromolecule biosynthet...
FUCA1: Enables alpha-L-fucosidase activity. Involved in fucose metabolic process and glycoside catabolic process. Locat...
GADD45A: Enables kinase binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes...
GLS2: Predicted to enable glutaminase activity. Acts upstream of or within r...
GM2A: Predicted to enable lipid transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in ganglioside catabolic process and lipid transport. Predicted to act upstream of or within several ...
GPX2: Predicted to enable glutathione peroxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular oxidant detoxification; electron transport chain; and response to oxidative stress. Predicted to act upstream of or ...
H1-2: Enables chromatin DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in chromosome condensation and negative regulation of DNA recombination. Predicted to ...
H2AJ: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted t...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity; heparin binding activity; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including epidermal gro...
HDAC3: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; cyclin binding activity; and hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in linear amides. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of protein import into nucleus; regulation of intracellular signal transductio...
HEXIM1: Enables several functions, including 7SK snRNA binding activity; P-TEFb complex binding activity; and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. Involved i...
HINT1: Enables adenosine 5'-monophosphoramidase activity and deSUMOylase activity. Involved in several processes, including intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway...
HMOX1: Enables several functions, including heme binding activity; heme oxygenase (decyclizing) activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including porphyrin-containing compound catabolic process; positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesi...
HRAS: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of MAPK cascade; regulation of GTPase activity; and regulation of protein localization to membrane. Located in several cellular compo...
HSPA4L: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Predicted to b...
IER3: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis; apoptotic process; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within...
IER5: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to heat; positive regulation of...
IFI30: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors. Predicted to be involved in antigen processing and presentation of exogenous peptide antigen via MHC clas...
IL1A: Enables copper ion binding activity and cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of interleukin-2 production; positive regulation of mitotic nuclear division; and response to copper ion. Located in cyt...
INHBB: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including activin receptor signaling path...
IP6K2: Enables flavonoid binding activity and inositol hexakisphosphate 5-kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including ce...
IRAG2: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity....
IRAK1: Enables protein dimerization activity; protein kinase binding activity; and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and re...
ISCU: Enables molecular adaptor activity; protein homodimerization activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including [2Fe-2S] cluster assembly; negative regul...
ITGB4: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Contributes to insulin-like growth factor I binding activity and neuregulin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including hemides...
JAG2: Enables Notch binding activity and growth factor activity. Involved in regulation of cell population proliferat...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMAD binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation by host of viral transcript...
KIF13B: Enables 14-3-3 protein binding activity and protein kinase b...
KLF4: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and promoter-specific chromatin binding act...
KLK8: Enables serine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including keratinocyte proliferation; negative...
KRT17: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to be involved in epithelial cell differentiation; hair follicle morphogenesis; and intermediate filament...
LDHB: Enables L-lactate dehydrogenase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in lactate meta...
LIF: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including leukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein phosphorylatio...
MAPKAPK3: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in peptidyl-serine...
MDM2: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific binding activity; p53 binding activity; and ubiquitin-like protein transferase activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid fibril formation; negative regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator; and regulat...
MKNK2: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes...
MXD1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequenc...
MXD4: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to contribute to DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific an...
NDRG1: Enables cadherin binding activity; small GTPase binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 ...
NHLH2: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to act upstream of or within with a positive...
NINJ1: Enables cell adhesion mediator activity and lipopolysaccharide binding activity. Involved in several processes, in...
NOL8: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in protein loca...
NOTCH1: Enables identical protein binding activity; transcription coactivator activity; and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including heart development; negative regulation...
NUDT15: Enables 8-oxo-7,8-dihydrodeoxyguanosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase activity; 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase activity; and 8-oxo-dGDP phosphat...
NUPR1: Enables DNA binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of catabolic process; p...
OSGIN1: Enables growth factor activity. Involved in several processes, includin...
PCNA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; MutLalpha complex binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA repair; cellular response to UV;...
PDGFA: Enables several functions, including platelet-derived growth factor binding activity; protein dimerization activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction...
PERP: Involved in activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predi...
PHLDA3: Enables phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity. Involved in intrinsic ...
PIDD1: Enables endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in cell cycle arrest; activation of cys...
PITPNC1: Enables phospholipid binding activity and phospholipid transfer activ...
PLK2: Enables ATP-dependent protein binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes...
PLK3: Enables p53 binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including G1/S transition of mit...
PLXNB2: Predicted to enable semaphorin receptor activity. Involved in homophilic cell adhesion via plasma membrane adhe...
PMM1: Enables phosphomannomutase activity. I...
POLH: Predicted to enable DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity. Involved in DNA synthesis involved in D...
POM121: Predicted to enable nuclear localization sequence binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constit...
PPM1D: Enables mitogen-activated protein kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in negative reg...
PPP1R15A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein phosphatase 1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum; regulati...
PRKAB1: Enables protein kinase activity. Involved in cellular response to nutrient levels; positi...
PRMT2: Enables several functions, including nuclear receptor binding activity; peroxisome proliferator activated receptor binding activity; and protein homod...
PROCR: Predicted to enable signaling receptor activity. Involved in negative regula...
PTPN14: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity; and transcription coregulator ac...
PTPRE: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of insulin receptor sig...
PVT1: Predicted to act upstream of or within response to wound...
RAB40C: Predicted to enable GTPase activity. Predicted to be involved in...
RACK1: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positi...
RAD51C: Contributes to crossover junction DNA endonuclease activity and four-way junction DNA binding activity. Involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination and positive regulation of G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle...
RAD9A: Enables 3'-5' exonuclease activity; SH3 domain binding activity; and enzyme binding ...
RALGDS: Enables GTPase regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in Ras protein ...
RAP2B: Enables GDP binding activity and GTP binding activity. Involved in platelet aggregation....
RB1: Enables several functions, including disordered domain specific binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and importin-alpha family protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including chromosome organization; negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of chromosome organization. Acts upstream of or within negative regulation of gene ...
RCHY1: Enables several functions, including p53 binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in ...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase ac...
RGS16: Enables GTPase activator activity. Involved...
RHBDF2: Predicted to enable protein transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of protein secretion and regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor...
RNF19B: Enables ubiquitin binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase a...
RPL18: A structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in cytoplasmic translation. Located in cytosolic riboso...
RPL36: A structural constituent of ribosome. Involved in cytoplasmic translation. Located in...
RPS12: A structural constituent of ribosome. Predicted to be involved in cytoplasm...
RPS27L: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process and translati...
RRAD: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and calcium channel regulator activity. Predicted to be involved in small GTPase medi...
RRP8: Enables methylated histone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including energy homeostasis; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation o...
RXRA: Enables several functions, including nuclear receptor activity; nuclear vitamin D receptor binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Contributes to vitamin D response element binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellu...
S100A10: Enables protein homodimerization activity and transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of ...
S100A4: Enables RAGE receptor binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regu...
SAT1: Enables diamine N-acetyltransferase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in angioge...
SDC1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of exosomal secretion; positive regulation...
SEC61A1: Enables calcium channel activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in cotranslational protein targeting to membrane; post-translational protein targeting to membrane, translocation; and protein insertion into E...
SERPINB5: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of endopeptidase activity. Predicted to ac...
SERTAD3: Involved in regulation of DNA-templated transcription. A...
SESN1: Enables leucine binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular oxidant detoxification; cell...
SFN: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to DNA damage; negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity invo...
SLC19A2: Enables thiamine transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in thiamine transport. Locat...
SLC35D1: Predicted to enable antiporter activity and pyrimidine nucleotide-sugar transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate transport and pyrimidine nucleotide-sugar transmembrane transport. Pre...
SLC3A2: Enables amino acid transmembrane transporter activity and double-stranded RNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including amino acid transport; phenylalanine transport; and thyroid hormone tr...
SLC7A11: Predicted to enable L-amino acid transmembrane transporter activity. Invo...
SOCS1: Enables insulin-like growth factor receptor binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in macrophage differentiation; negative regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein; and positive regulation of regulatory T cell differentiation. Locate...
SP1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; HMG box domain binding activity; and histone deacetylase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive reg...
SPHK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; calmodulin binding activity; and lipid kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positive re...
ST14: Enables serine-type peptidase activity. Involved in keratinocyte differentiation and proteolysis. Predicted to be located in plasma mem...
STEAP3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Acts ...
STOM: Enables RNA polymerase binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including positive regulation by host o...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporter activity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I; cytosol to...
TAX1BP3: Predicted to enable beta-catenin binding activity and metalloendopeptidase activity. Involved in Rho protein sign...
TCHH: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Predicted to b...
TCN2: Enables cobalamin binding activity. Involved in cobalamin transport. Located in extracellular space. Implicated in...
TGFA: Enables epidermal growth factor receptor binding activity and growth factor activity. Involved in several processes, including ERBB2-EGFR signaling pathway; positive regulation of epidermal growth factor-activated receptor ac...
TGFB1: Enables several functions, including antigen binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and transforming growth factor beta receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within epithelial to mesenchymal transition; negative regulation o...
TM4SF1: Predicted to act upstream of or with...
TM7SF3: Involved in cellular response to unfolded protein; negative regulatio...
TNFSF9: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily binding activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of activated T cell proliferation and positive regulation of cytotoxic T cel...
TNNI1: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cardiac muscle contraction and skeletal muscle c...
TOB1: Enables receptor tyrosine kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell...
TP53: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; enzyme binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metabolic process. Acts upstream of with a negative effect on regulation of cell cycle G2/M phase transition. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including ER o...
TP63: Enables several functions, including MDM2/MDM4 family protein binding activity; WW domain binding activity; and p53 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cellular senescence; positive regulation of fibroblast apoptotic...
TPD52L1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in G2/M transition of m...
TPRKB: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in tRNA threonylcarbamoyladenos...
TRAF4: Enables several functions, including WW domain binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and tumor necrosis factor receptor binding ac...
TRAFD1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. P...
TRIAP1: Enables p53 binding activity. Contributes to phosphatidic acid transfer activity. Involved in several processes, including DNA damage response, signal tra...
TRIB3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to ...
TSC22D1: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative re...
TSPYL2: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity and histone binding activity. Involved in nega...
TXNIP: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in cellular respo...
UPP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and uridine ph...
VAMP8: Enables chloride channel inhibitor activity. Involved in several processes, including autophagosome membrane docking; mucus secretion; and regulation...
VDR: Enables several functions, including lithocholic acid receptor activity; nuclear receptor activity; and steroid binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity and vitamin D response element binding activity. Involved in several processes, including decidualization; mRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II; and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Ac...
VWA5A: Located i...
WRAP73: Involved in mitotic spindle assembly and positive regula...
WWP1: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including positive...
XPC: Enables DNA binding activity; DNA damage sensor activity; and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in DNA repair; positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation...
ZBTB16: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; protein homodimerization activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in several processes, includ...
ZFP36L1: Enables 14-3-3 protein binding activity and mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to hor...
ZMAT3: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, in...
ZNF365: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of neuron projection development; regulation of DNA meta...
////
ABCA1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and floppase activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasis; lipid transport; and secretion by cell. Located in several ...
ACKR3: Enables C-X-C chemokine binding activity; C-X-C chemokine receptor activity; and scavenger receptor activity. Involved in several processes, includin...
AREG: Enables receptor ligand activity and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in ERBB2-EGFR signaling pathway; G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; and pos...
ATF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and protein dimerization activity. Involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA...
ATP2B1: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity and P-type calcium transporter activity involved in regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Involved in several processes, including calcium ion export acros...
B4GALT1: Enables several functions, including UDP-galactosyltransferase activity; manganese ion binding activity; and tubulin binding activity. Involved in oligosaccharide biosynthetic process...
B4GALT5: Enables UDP-galactose:glucosylceramide beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including ganglioside biosynthetic process via lactosylcerami...
BCL2A1: Predicted to enable protein heterodimerization activity and protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involved in extrin...
BCL3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal tra...
BCL6: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; identical protein binding activity; and transcription corepressor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of DNA-templated tr...
BHLHE40: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; E-box binding activity; and protein dimeriz...
BIRC2: Enables several functions, including FBXO family protein binding activity; ubiquitin binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulati...
BIRC3: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in positive regulation of protein ubiquitination; regulation of apoptotic process; and regulation of necroptotic process. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm...
BMP2: Enables several functions, including BMP receptor binding activity; co-receptor binding activity; and phosphatase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of cellular biosynthetic process; regulation of signal transduction; and transmembrane receptor protein serine/threonine kinase signaling pathway. Acts upstream of or wit...
BTG1: Enables enzyme binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of angiogenesis; positive regulation of endothelial cell differentiation; and positive regulation ...
BTG2: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved in negative regulation of cell population proliferation; negative regulation of translation; and neuron project...
BTG3: Acts upstream of or within negative r...
CCL2: Predicted to enable CCR2 chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; leukocyte chemotaxis; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in extracellular region. Implicated...
CCL20: Enables CCR6 chemokine receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobial peptide; calcium-mediated signaling using intracellular calcium source; and killin...
CCL4: Enables CCR1 chemokine receptor binding activity; CCR5 chemokine receptor binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation by host of viral transcription; positive regulation of calcium-mediated signal...
CCL5: Enables several functions, including enzyme activator activity; phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; positive regulation of cell migration; and positive regulation of cell-cell adhesion. Acts upstream of ...
CCN1: Predicted to enable heparin binding activity and integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regu...
CCND1: Enables enzyme binding activity; proline-rich region binding activity; and transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity; regulation of mitotic cell cycle phase transition; and response to UV-A. Located in cyclin D1-...
CCNL1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator acti...
CCRL2: Enables CCR chemokine receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, inc...
CD44: Enables hyaluronic acid binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell-cell adhesion; positive regulation of phosphorylation; and regulation of intracellular signal transduction. Loc...
CD69: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be i...
CD80: Predicted to enable coreceptor activity and virus receptor activity. Involved in positive regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. Located in cell surface. Part of pr...
CD83: Predicted to be involved in defense response; humoral immune response; and signal transduction. Predicted to act upstream of or withi...
CDKN1A: Enables several functions, including enzyme binding activity; protein kinase regulator activity; and protein sequestering activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulation of protein phosphorylation. Acts upstream of or within negative regu...
CEBPB: Enables RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. Acts upstrea...
CEBPD: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of cell differentiation and regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase ...
CFLAR: Enables enzyme activator activity and protease binding activity. Involved in apoptotic process; positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling; and regulation of programmed cell death. Acts upstream ...
CLCF1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Contributes to ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding activity and cytokine activity. Involved in negative regulation of neuron apoptotic process; positiv...
CSF1: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell differentiation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and positive regulation of macrophage migr...
CSF2: Enables cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; myeloid leukocyte differentiation; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Located in extracellular space; granu...
CXCL1: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobial peptide and killing of cells of a...
CXCL10: Enables chemoattractant activity; chemokine receptor binding activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol; regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis; and response to virus. ...
CXCL11: Enables CXCR3 chemokine receptor binding activity; chemokine activity; and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cell chemotaxis; killing of cells of another organ...
CXCL2: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobial...
CXCL3: Predicted to enable CXCR chemokine receptor binding activity and chemokine activity. Involved in an...
CXCL6: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; neutrophil acti...
DENND5A: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in retrograde transport, endosome ...
DNAJB4: Enables ATPase activator activity and protein-folding chaperone binding activity. Pred...
DRAM1: Involved in regulation ...
DUSP1: Enables protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of MAPK cascade; negative regulati...
DUSP2: Predicted to enable MAP kinase tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/threonine phosphatase activity. Pre...
DUSP4: Enables MAP kinase serine/threonine phosphatase activity; protein tyrosine phosphatase activity; and pr...
DUSP5: Enables protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity. Involved in peptidyl-threonine deph...
EDN1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular signal transduction; regulation of macromolecule biosynthetic process; and vascular associated smooth muscle contraction. Located in cytoplasm and...
EFNA1: Enables ephrin receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including ephrin receptor signaling pathway; ...
EGR1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; double-stranded DNA binding activity; and histone acetyltransferase binding activity. Involved in cellular response to cytoki...
EGR2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and ubiquitin protein liga...
EGR3: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to vascular ...
EHD1: Enables identical protein binding activity and small GTPase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including end...
EIF1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in regul...
ETS2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activit...
F2RL1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and protease binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of myeloid leukocyte...
F3: Enables phospholipid binding activity and protease binding activity. Contributes to serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process; activation of plasma proteins involved in acute inflammatory response; and positive regulation of signal transduction. Acts ups...
FJX1: Predicted to be involved in cell-cell signaling. Predicted to act upstream of or wit...
FOS: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; R-SMAD binding activity; and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to ca...
FOSB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of transcrip...
FOSL1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription initiation and positive regulati...
FOSL2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding acti...
FUT4: Enables 4-galactosyl-N-acetylglucosaminide 3-alpha-L-fucosyltransferase activity. Involved in several pr...
G0S2: Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway and pos...
GADD45A: Enables kinase binding activity; protein heterodimerization activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes...
GADD45B: Involved in positive regulation of JNK cascade; positive regulation ...
GCH1: Enables several functions, including GTP binding activity; GTP cyclohydrolase I activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including dopamine biosynthetic process; positive regulation of nitr...
GEM: Enables GTPase activity; guanyl ribonucleotide binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Invol...
GFPT2: Predicted to enable glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase (isomerizing) activity. Predicted to be involved in UDP-N-acetylglucosamine metabolic process; fruc...
GPR183: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and oxysterol binding activity. Involved in several processes, inclu...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity; heparin binding activity; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes, including epidermal gro...
HES1: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several proces...
ICAM1: Enables integrin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including T cell activation via T cell receptor contact with antigen bound to MHC molecule on antigen presenting cell; cellular response to amyloid-beta; and regulation of apoptotic process. Located in...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in T cell receptor signa...
ID2: Enables transmembrane transporter binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor ac...
IER2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in cell motility and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located i...
IER3: Predicted to be involved in anatomical structure morphogenesis; apoptotic process; and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within...
IER5: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to heat; positive regulation of...
IFIH1: Enables several functions, including ATP hydrolysis activity; RNA binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in several processes...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of protein bind...
IFNGR2: Predicted to enable cytokine receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in cytokine-mediated signaling pathw...
IL12B: Enables identical protein binding activity; interleukin-12 alpha subunit binding activity; and protein heterodimerization activity. Contributes to cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and interleukin-23 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive re...
IL15RA: Enables interleukin-15 receptor activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in interl...
IL18: Enables cytokine activity and interleukin-18 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macrom...
IL1A: Enables copper ion binding activity and cytokine activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of interleukin-2 production; positive regulation of mitotic nuclear division; and response to copper ion. Located in cyt...
IL1B: Enables cytokine activity; integrin binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of monooxygenase activity; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within cellular response to organic substance; cellular respons...
IL23A: Contributes to interleukin-23 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulatio...
IL6: Enables cytokine activity and growth factor activity. Contributes to interleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell population proliferation; positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; and regulation of peptide hormone secretion. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including cellular response to lipopolysaccharide; positive regulatio...
IL6ST: Enables several functions, including ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor activity; ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding activity; and scaffold protein binding activity. Contributes to cytokine receptor activity; interleukin-6 binding activity; and interleukin-6 receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including...
IL7R: Enables cytokine receptor activity. Involved in positive regulation of cell population proliferation and positive regulation of receptor signaling pathway via STAT. Located in cytos...
INHBA: Enables identical protein binding activity; peptide hormone binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including gonad development; neuron ...
IRF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, i...
IRS2: Predicted to enable several functions, including 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activity; insulin receptor binding activity; and molecular function activator activity. Involved in cellular response to insulin stim...
JAG1: Enables Notch binding activity; molecular adaptor activity; and phospholipid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including circulatory system development; negative regulation of cell adhesion; and neuronal s...
JUN: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; GTPase activator activity; and R-SMAD binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation by host of viral transcript...
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in RNA polymerase II transcription...
KDM6B: Enables histone H3K27me2/H3K27me3 demethylase activity. Involved in histone H3-K27 demethylat...
KLF10: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region ...
KLF2: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved i...
KLF4: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and promoter-specific chromatin binding act...
KLF6: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-speci...
KLF9: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA ...
KYNU: Enables 3-hydroxykynureninase activity; kynureninase activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including ar...
LAMB3: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Involved in endodermal cell differentiation. Part of collagen-co...
LDLR: Enables several functions, including low-density lipoprotein particle binding activity; low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity; and very-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including cholesterol homeostasi...
LIF: Enables cytokine activity; growth factor activity; and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including leukemia inhibitory factor signaling pathway; positive regulation of protein phosphorylatio...
LITAF: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; WW domain binding activity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in positi...
MAFF: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA b...
MAP2K3: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of hippo signaling; p38MAPK cascade; and positive regulati...
MAP3K8: Predicted to enable MAP kinase kinase kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in MAPK cascade and protein phosphorylation. Loca...
MARCKS: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity. Predicted to be involved in actin filament organization; central ne...
MCL1: Enables BH3 domain binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity. Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand; negative regulation of autophagy; and regulation of apoptotic process. A...
MSC: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of...
MXD1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequenc...
MYC: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 binding activity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein-DNA complex organization; regulation of fibroblast proliferation; and regulation of nucleobase-containing compound metab...
NAMPT: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of nitric-oxide synthase biosynthetic process and positive regulation of transcription...
NFAT5: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and chr...
NFE2L2: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; and transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of cell death; positiv...
NFIL3: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding acti...
NFKB1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; actinin binding activity; and transcription coactivator binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to cytokine stimulus; cellular response to mechanical st...
NFKB2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA ...
NFKBIA: Enables several functions, including NF-kappaB binding activity; nuclear localization sequence binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macrophage derived foam cell differentiation; positive regulation of cholesterol efflux; and regul...
NFKBIE: Predicted to be involved in cytoplasmic sequestering o...
NINJ1: Enables cell adhesion mediator activity and lipopolysaccharide binding activity. Involved in several processes, in...
NR4A1: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to vascular endothelial growth factor st...
NR4A2: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA-templated transcription; negative regulation of apoptotic signal...
NR4A3: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of monocyte aggregation; po...
OLR1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including leukocyte cell-cell adhesion; lipoprotein metabolic process; and positive regulation ...
PANX1: Enables channel activity; identical protein binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. I...
PDE4B: Enables 3',5'-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and cAMP binding activity. Involved in T cell receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of interleukin-2 produ...
PDLIM5: Enables cadherin binding activity involved in cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to be involved in actin cytoskele...
PER1: Enables E-box binding activity; kinase binding activity; and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activ...
PFKFB3: Enables 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity. Predicted to ...
PHLDA1: Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity. Predicted to be involved in po...
PHLDA2: Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity. Predicted to be involved in placenta development. Predicted to act upstream of or wi...
PLAU: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase activity. Involved in several processes, including plasminogen activation; regulation of cell adhesion mediated by integrin; and regulation of smooth muscle cell-matrix adhesion. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cell migration. Located in several cellular componen...
PLAUR: Enables enzyme binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway; positive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pat...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein kinase C binding activity. Involved ...
PLK2: Enables ATP-dependent protein binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in several processes...
PLPP3: Enables integrin binding activity; lipid phosphatase activity; and phosphatidate phosphatase activity. Involved in several processes, including canonical Wnt signaling pathway;...
PMEPA1: Enables R-SMAD binding activity and WW domain binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of SMAD protein complex assembly; negative regulation of pathway-restricted SMAD protein phos...
PNRC1: Predicted to ...
PPP1R15A: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein phosphatase 1 binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum; regulati...
PTGER4: Enables prostaglandin E receptor activity. Involved in several processes, including adenylate cyclase-modulating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway; negative regulation of ...
PTGS2: Enables enzyme binding activity and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase activity. Involved in cellular response to hypoxia and cyclooxygenase pathway. Located in endoplasmic reticulum; neuron projection; and nuclear membrane. Implicated in ...
PTPRE: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of insulin receptor sig...
PTX3: Enables complement component C1q complex binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and virion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including modulation by host of viral process; negative regul...
RCAN1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of ca...
REL: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulati...
RELA: Enables several functions, including DNA binding activity; DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to molecule of bacterial origin; regulation of DNA-templated transcription; and regulation of signal transduction. Acts upstream of or within nucleotide-binding activity oligom...
RELB: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in lymphocyte differentiation and negative regulation o...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, includi...
RIPK2: Enables several functions, including caspase binding activity; protein domain specific binding activity; and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to muramyl...
RNF19B: Enables ubiquitin binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase a...
SAT1: Enables diamine N-acetyltransferase activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in angioge...
SDC4: Enables identical protein binding activity and thrombospondin receptor activity. Involved in negative regulation of T cell pro...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation ...
SERPINB8: Enables serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Involved in epithelial cell-c...
SERPINE1: Enables protease binding activity; serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of proteolysis; regulation of angiogenesis; and response to bacterium. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matrix;...
SGK1: Enables protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in intracellular signal transduction; neuron projection morphogenesis; and peptidyl-serine phosphorylation. Predicted to act upstream ...
SIK1: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; ATP binding activity; and magnesium ion binding activity. Involved...
SLC16A6: Predicted to enable monocarboxylic acid transmembrane transporter activi...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucose binding activity; and hexose transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in galactose tra...
SLC2A6: Predicted to enable dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; fructose transmembrane ...
SMAD3: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; SMAD binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Contributes to DNA-binding transcription factor activity. Involved in several processes, including cell surface receptor signaling pathwa...
SNN: Enables metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be ...
SOCS3: Predicted to enable 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulator activity. Involved in negative regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT protein. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predi...
SOD2: Enables identical protein binding activity; manganese ion binding activity; and superoxide dismutase activity. Involved in several processes, including intracellular oxygen homeostasis; negative regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation; and regulatio...
SPHK1: Enables several functions, including ATP binding activity; calmodulin binding activity; and lipid kinase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; positive re...
SPSB1: Enables ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptor activity. Involved in...
SQSTM1: Enables several functions, including K63-linked polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity; SH2 domain binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involved in several processes, including protein loc...
STAT5A: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration and positive regulation of endothelial cell proliferation. Acts upstr...
TANK: Enables deubiquitinase activator activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Contributes to cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in ...
TAP1: Enables several functions, including ABC-type peptide antigen transporter activity; TAP2 binding activity; and adenyl ribonucleotide binding activity. Involved in antigen processing and presentation of endogenous peptide antigen via MHC class I; cytosol to...
TGIF1: Enables DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequ...
TIPARP: Enables NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity; NAD+- protein-cysteine ADP-ribosyltransferase activity; and cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding acti...
TLR2: Enables several functions, including lipopolysaccharide binding activity; peptide binding activity; and peptidoglycan binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; positive regulation of cytokine production; and positive regulation of defense response. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of NF-kappaB transcription factor activity and response to molecule ...
TNC: Enables syndecan binding activity. Involved in regulation of cell adhesion; regulation of cell growth; and response to wounding. Located in collagen-containing extracellular matr...
TNF: Enables several functions, including identical protein binding activity; protease binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes, includin...
TNFAIP2: Predicted to enable SNARE binding activity. Predicted to be involved in exocy...
TNFAIP3: Enables several functions, including deubiquitinase activity; identical protein binding activity; and ubiquitin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of signal transduction; protein modification by small protein ...
TNFAIP6: Enables calcium ion binding activity; fibronectin binding activity; and hyaluronic acid binding activity. Involved in several processes, including fibronectin fibril ...
TNFAIP8: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apopt...
TNFRSF9: Predicted to enable cytokine binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involved in regulation of cell population proliferation. Predicted to ...
TNFSF9: Predicted to enable tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily binding activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of activated T cell proliferation and positive regulation of cytotoxic T cel...
TNIP1: Enables identical protein binding activity and mitogen-activated protein kinase binding activity. Involved in several processes, ...
TNIP2: Enables polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulatio...
TRAF1: Enables enzyme binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and tumor necrosis factor receptor binding activity. Involved in positive r...
TRIB1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase binding activity; and protein ...
TRIP10: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be i...
TSC22D1: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative re...
TUBB2A: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be a structural constituent of cytoskeleton. Predicted to be involved in microtubule cyt...
VEGFA: Enables several functions, including fibronectin binding activity; heparin binding activity; and signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of cell migration; positive regulation of intracellular signal transduction; and positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process. Acts upstream of or within several processes, including branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis; pos...
YRDC: Enables L-threonylcarbamoyladenylate synthase. Involved in tRNA threonylcarbamoyladenosine modi...
ZBTB10: Enables telomeric DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negati...
ZC3H12A: Enables RNA nuclease activity; chromatin binding activity; and nucleic acid binding activity. Contributes to cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity. Involved in several proces...
ZFP36: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; heat shock protein binding activity; and mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response...
