ZMPSTE24: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M48A family. The encoded protein is a zinc metalloproteinase involved in the two step post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of farnesylated prelamin A to form mature lamin A. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mandibuloacral dysplasia and restrictive dermopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BANF1: The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its ability to protect retroviruses from intramolecular integration and therefore promote intermolecular integration into the host cell genome. The protein forms a homodimer which localizes to both the nucleus and cytoplasm and is specifically associated with chromosomes during mitosis. This protein binds to double stranded DNA in a non-specific manner and also binds to LEM-domain containing proteins of the nuclear envelope. This protein is thought to facilitate nuclear reassembly by binding with both DNA and inner nuclear membrane proteins and thereby recruit chromatin to the nuclear periphery. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]
WRN: This gene encodes a member of the RecQ subfamily of DNA helicase proteins. The encoded nuclear protein is important in the maintenance of genome stability and plays a role in DNA repair, replication, transcription and telomere maintenance. This protein contains a N-terminal 3' to 5' exonuclease domain, an ATP-dependent helicase domain and RQC (RecQ helicase conserved region) domain in its central region, and a C-terminal HRDC (helicase RNase D C-terminal) domain and nuclear localization signal. Defects in this gene are the cause of Werner syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accelerated aging and an elevated risk for certain cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
LMNA: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the nuclear lamina, a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution. During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated. Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene lead to several diseases: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, familial partial lipodystrophy, limb girdle muscular dystrophy, dilated cardiomyopathy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, May 2022]
////
PEX1: This gene encodes a member of the AAA ATPase family, a large group of ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities. This protein is cytoplasmic but is often anchored to a peroxisomal membrane where it forms a heteromeric complex and plays a role in the import of proteins into peroxisomes and peroxisome biogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with complementation group 1 peroxisomal disorders such as neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, infantile Refsum disease, and Zellweger syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]
PEX2: This gene encodes an integral peroxisomal membrane protein required for peroxisome biogenesis. The protein is thought to be involved in peroxisomal matrix protein import. Mutations in this gene result in one form of Zellweger syndrome and infantile Refsum disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PEX3: The product of this gene is involved in peroxisome biosynthesis and integrity. It assembles membrane vesicles before the matrix proteins are translocated. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biogenesis disorders are a heterogeneous group with at least 14 complementation groups and with more than 1 phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause Zellweger syndrome (ZWS). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
PEX5: The product of this gene binds to the C-terminal PTS1-type tripeptide peroxisomal targeting signal (SKL-type) and plays an essential role in peroxisomal protein import. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biogenesis disorders are a heterogeneous group with at least 14 complementation groups and with more than 1 phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), a cause of Zellweger syndrome (ZWS) as well as may be a cause of infantile Refsum disease (IRD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
PEX6: This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) family of ATPases. This member is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein, which plays a direct role in peroxisomal protein import and is required for PTS1 (peroxisomal targeting signal 1, a C-terminal tripeptide of the sequence ser-lys-leu) receptor activity. Mutations in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders of complementation group 4 and complementation group 6. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
PEX7: This gene encodes the cytosolic receptor for the set of peroxisomal matrix enzymes targeted to the organelle by the peroxisome targeting signal 2 (PTS2). Defects in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), which are characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. There are at least 14 complementation groups for PBDs, with more than one phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene have been associated with PBD complementation group 11 (PBD-CG11) disorders, rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (RCDP1), and Refsum disease (RD). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
////
HK1: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants which encode different isoforms, some of which are tissue-specific. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]
GPI: This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In the cytoplasm, the gene product functions as a glycolytic enzyme (glucose-6-phosphate isomerase) that interconverts glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. Extracellularly, the encoded protein (also referred to as neuroleukin) functions as a neurotrophic factor that promotes survival of skeletal motor neurons and sensory neurons, and as a lymphokine that induces immunoglobulin secretion. The encoded protein is also referred to as autocrine motility factor based on an additional function as a tumor-secreted cytokine and angiogenic factor. Defects in this gene are the cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and a severe enzyme deficiency can be associated with hydrops fetalis, immediate neonatal death and neurological impairment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
PFKM: Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver and platelet. These isozymes function as subunits of the mammalian tetramer phosphofructokinase, which catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Tetramer composition varies depending on tissue type. This gene encodes the muscle-type isozyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycogen storage disease type VII, also known as Tarui disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase protein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Glycogen Storage Disease XII, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hemolytic anemia. Disruption of this gene also plays a role in the progression of multiple types of cancers. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 10. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2017]
TPI1: This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, which catalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehydes 3-phosphate (G3P) and dihydroxy-acetone phosphate (DHAP) in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4, 6 and 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]
GAPDH: This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. The product of this gene catalyzes an important energy-yielding step in carbohydrate metabolism, the reversible oxidative phosphorylation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate in the presence of inorganic phosphate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The encoded protein has additionally been identified to have uracil DNA glycosylase activity in the nucleus. Also, this protein contains a peptide that has antimicrobial activity against E. coli, P. aeruginosa, and C. albicans. Studies of a similar protein in mouse have assigned a variety of additional functions including nitrosylation of nuclear proteins, the regulation of mRNA stability, and acting as a transferrin receptor on the cell surface of macrophage. Many pseudogenes similar to this locus are present in the human genome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
PGK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encoded protein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. Additionally, this protein is secreted by tumor cells where it participates in angiogenesis by functioning to reduce disulfide bonds in the serine protease, plasmin, which consequently leads to the release of the tumor blood vessel inhibitor angiostatin. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Deficiency of the enzyme is associated with a wide range of clinical phenotypes hemolytic anemia and neurological impairment. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 19, 21 and the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]
PGAM2: Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) catalyzes the reversible reaction of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycolytic pathway. The PGAM is a dimeric enzyme containing, in different tissues, different proportions of a slow-migrating muscle (MM) isozyme, a fast-migrating brain (BB) isozyme, and a hybrid form (MB). This gene encodes muscle-specific PGAM subunit. Mutations in this gene cause muscle phosphoglycerate mutase eficiency, also known as glycogen storage disease X. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]
ENO3: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the adult where it may play a role in muscle development and regeneration. A switch from alpha enolase to beta enolase occurs in muscle tissue during development in rodents. Mutations in this gene have be associated glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]
PKM: This gene encodes a protein involved in glycolysis. The encoded protein is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate to ADP, generating ATP and pyruvate. This protein has been shown to interact with thyroid hormone and may mediate cellular metabolic effects induced by thyroid hormones. This protein has been found to bind Opa protein, a bacterial outer membrane protein involved in gonococcal adherence to and invasion of human cells, suggesting a role of this protein in bacterial pathogenesis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding a few distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]
////
EGR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor with three tandem C2H2-type zinc fingers. Defects in this gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1D (CMT1D), Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4E (CMT4E), and with Dejerine-Sottas syndrome (DSS). Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
NAGLU: This gene encodes an enzyme that degrades heparan sulfate by hydrolysis of terminal N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminides. Defects in this gene are the cause of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS-IIIB), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome B. This disease is characterized by the lysosomal accumulation and urinary excretion of heparan sulfate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GPI: This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In the cytoplasm, the gene product functions as a glycolytic enzyme (glucose-6-phosphate isomerase) that interconverts glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. Extracellularly, the encoded protein (also referred to as neuroleukin) functions as a neurotrophic factor that promotes survival of skeletal motor neurons and sensory neurons, and as a lymphokine that induces immunoglobulin secretion. The encoded protein is also referred to as autocrine motility factor based on an additional function as a tumor-secreted cytokine and angiogenic factor. Defects in this gene are the cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and a severe enzyme deficiency can be associated with hydrops fetalis, immediate neonatal death and neurological impairment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
DNAJC3: This gene encodes a protein with multiple tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs as well as the highly conserved J domain found in DNAJ chaperone family members. It is a member of the tetratricopeptide repeat family of proteins and acts as an inhibitor of the interferon-induced, dsRNA-activated protein kinase (PKR). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]
SH3TC2: This gene encodes a protein with two N-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) domains and 10 tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs, and is a member of a small gene family. The gene product has been proposed to be an adapter or docking molecule. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4C, a childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelination of motor and sensory neurons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TWNK: This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication. The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids. Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]
PIEZO2: The protein encoded by this gene contains more than thirty transmembrane domains and likely functions as part of mechanically-activated (MA) cation channels. These channels serve to connect mechanical forces to biological signals. The encoded protein quickly adapts MA currents in somatosensory neurons. Defects in this gene are a cause of type 5 distal arthrogryposis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]
FLVCR1: This gene encodes a member of the major facilitator superfamily of transporter proteins. The encoded protein is a heme transporter that may play a critical role in erythropoiesis by protecting developing erythroid cells from heme toxicity. This gene may play a role in posterior column ataxia with retinitis pigmentosa and the hematological disorder Diamond-Blackfan syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]
MPZ: This gene is specifically expressed in Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system and encodes a type I transmembrane glycoprotein that is a major structural protein of the peripheral myelin sheath. The encoded protein contains a large hydrophobic extracellular domain and a smaller basic intracellular domain, which are essential for the formation and stabilization of the multilamellar structure of the compact myelin. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 (CMT1B) and other polyneuropathies, such as Dejerine-Sottas syndrome (DSS) and congenital hypomyelinating neuropathy (CHN). A recent study showed that two isoforms are produced from the same mRNA by use of alternative in-frame translation termination codons via a stop codon readthrough mechanism. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
PRX: This gene encodes a protein involved in peripheral nerve myelin upkeep. The encoded protein contains 2 PDZ domains which were named after PSD95 (post synaptic density protein), DlgA (Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor), and ZO1 (a mammalian tight junction protein). Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene which encode different protein isoforms and which are targeted differently in the Schwann cell. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuoropathy, type 4F and Dejerine-Sottas neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PMP22: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a major component of myelin in the peripheral nervous system. Studies suggest two alternately used promoters drive tissue-specific expression. Various mutations of this gene are causes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease Type IA, Dejerine-Sottas syndrome, and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
KPNA3: The transport of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells is mediated by the nuclear pore complex (NPC), which consists of 60-100 proteins. Small molecules (up to 70 kD) can pass through the nuclear pore by nonselective diffusion while larger molecules are transported by an active process. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the importin alpha family, and is involved in nuclear protein import. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]
POLG: Mitochondrial DNA polymerase is heterotrimeric, consisting of a homodimer of accessory subunits plus a catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase. The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic. Defects in this gene are a cause of progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 1 (PEOA1), sensory ataxic neuropathy dysarthria and ophthalmoparesis (SANDO), Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome (AHS), and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome (MNGIE). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RNF170: This gene encodes a RING domain-containing protein that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. This protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and mediates ubiquitination and processing of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors via the ER-associated protein degradation pathway. It is recruited to the activated IP3 receptors by the ERLIN1/ERLIN2 complex to which it is constitutively bound. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant sensory ataxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]
AARS1: The human alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS) belongs to a family of tRNA synthases, of the class II enzymes.  Class II tRNA synthases evolved early in evolution and are highly conserved.  This is reflected by the fact that 498 of the 968-residue polypeptide human AARS shares 41% identity witht the E.coli protein.  tRNA synthases are the enzymes that interpret the RNA code and attach specific aminoacids to the tRNAs that contain the cognate trinucleotide anticodons.  They consist of a catalytic domain which interacts with the amino acid acceptor-T psi C helix of the tRNA, and a second domain which interacts with the rest of the tRNA structure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
////
AHSG: The protein encoded by this gene is a negatively-charged serum glycoprotein that is synthesized by hepatocytes. The encoded protein consists of two polypeptide chains, which are both cleaved from a proprotein encoded from a single mRNA. It is involved in several processes, including endocytosis, brain development, and the formation of bone tissue. Defects in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to leanness. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
CARMIL1: Involved in several processes, including actin filament network formation; plasma membrane bounded cell projection organization; and positive regulation of cellular component organization. Located in several cellular components, including lamellipodium; macropinosome; and nuclear speck. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
DNM2: Dynamins represent one of the subfamilies of GTP-binding proteins. These proteins share considerable sequence similarity over the N-terminal portion of the molecule, which contains the GTPase domain. Dynamins are associated with microtubules. They have been implicated in cell processes such as endocytosis and cell motility, and in alterations of the membrane that accompany certain activities such as bone resorption by osteoclasts. Dynamins bind many proteins that bind actin and other cytoskeletal proteins. Dynamins can also self-assemble, a process that stimulates GTPase activity. Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different proteins have been described. Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]
DOCK2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDM protein family. It is specifically expressed in hematopoietic cells and is predominantly expressed in peripheral blood leukocytes. The protein is involved in remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton required for lymphocyte migration in response to chemokine signaling. It activates members of the Rho family of GTPases, for example RAC1 and RAC2, by acting as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) to exchange bound GDP for free GTP. Mutations in this gene result in immunodeficiency 40 (IMD40), a combined form of immunodeficiency that affects T cell number and function, also with variable defects in B cell and NK cell function. [provided by RefSeq, May 2018]
EHD4: Enables cadherin binding activity. Involved in endocytic recycling and protein homooligomerization. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and recycling endosome membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MAPKAPK2: This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase is regulated through direct phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase. In conjunction with p38 MAP kinase, this kinase is known to be involved in many cellular processes including stress and inflammatory responses, nuclear export, gene expression regulation and cell proliferation. Heat shock protein HSP27 was shown to be one of the substrates of this kinase in vivo. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MAPKAPK3: This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase functions as a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)- activated protein kinase. MAP kinases are also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This kinase was shown to be activated by growth inducers and stress stimulation of cells. In vitro studies demonstrated that ERK, p38 MAP kinase and Jun N-terminal kinase were all able to phosphorylate and activate this kinase, which suggested the role of this kinase as an integrative element of signaling in both mitogen and stress responses. This kinase was reported to interact with, phosphorylate and repress the activity of E47, which is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor known to be involved in the regulation of tissue-specific gene expression and cell differentiation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]
PPT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved in the catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal degradation. The encoded enzyme removes thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from cysteine residues. Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1 (CLN1, or INCL) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4 (CLN4). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]
PYCARD: This gene encodes an adaptor protein that is composed of two protein-protein interaction domains: a N-terminal PYRIN-PAAD-DAPIN domain (PYD) and a C-terminal caspase-recruitment domain (CARD). The PYD and CARD domains are members of the six-helix bundle death domain-fold superfamily that mediates assembly of large signaling complexes in the inflammatory and apoptotic signaling pathways via the activation of caspase. In normal cells, this protein is localized to the cytoplasm; however, in cells undergoing apoptosis, it forms ball-like aggregates near the nuclear periphery. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RAB34: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the RAB family of proteins, which are small GTPases involved in protein transport. This family member is a Golgi-bound member of the secretory pathway that is involved in the repositioning of lysosomes and the activation of macropinocytosis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. An alternatively spliced transcript variant produces the nine-amino acid residue-repeats (NARR) protein, which is a functionally distinct nucleolar protein resulting from a different reading frame. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016]
SNX33: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cytoskeletal reorganization, vesicle trafficking, endocytosis, and mitosis. The encoded protein is essential for the creation of the cleavage furrow during mitosis and for completion of mitosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015]
SNX5: This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of this family contain a phox (PX) domain, which is a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellular trafficking. This protein functions in endosomal sorting, the phosphoinositide-signaling pathway, and macropinocytosis. This gene may play a role in the tumorigenesis of papillary thyroid carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]
UBE3A: This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, part of the ubiquitin protein degradation system. This imprinted gene is maternally expressed in brain and biallelically expressed in other tissues. Maternally inherited deletion of this gene causes Angelman Syndrome, characterized by severe motor and intellectual retardation, ataxia, hypotonia, epilepsy, absence of speech, and characteristic facies. The protein also interacts with the E6 protein of human papillomavirus types 16 and 18, resulting in ubiquitination and proteolysis of tumor protein p53. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding three isoforms with different N-termini. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
LRP1: This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furin to generate 515 kDa and 85 kDa subunits that form the mature receptor (PMID: 8546712). This receptor is involved in several cellular processes, including intracellular signaling, lipid homeostasis, and clearance of apoptotic cells. In addition, the encoded protein is necessary for the alpha 2-macroglobulin-mediated clearance of secreted amyloid precursor protein and beta-amyloid, the main component of amyloid plaques found in Alzheimer patients. Expression of this gene decreases with age and has been found to be lower than controls in brain tissue from Alzheimer's disease patients. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein of the platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in platelets and various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteins involved in a variety of adhesive processes, this protein may have important functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It binds to collagen, thrombospondin, anionic phospholipids and oxidized LDL. It directly mediates cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum parasitized erythrocytes and it binds long chain fatty acids and may function in the transport and/or as a regulator of fatty acid transport. Mutations in this gene cause platelet glycoprotein deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]
LDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands. The encoded protein is normally bound at the cell membrane, where it binds low density lipoprotein/cholesterol and is taken into the cell. Lysosomes release the cholesterol, which is made available for repression of microsomal enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis. At the same time, a reciprocal stimulation of cholesterol ester synthesis takes place. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal dominant disorder, familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2022]
////
AKT1: This gene encodes one of the three members of the human AKT serine-threonine protein kinase family which are often referred to as protein kinase B alpha, beta, and gamma. These highly similar AKT proteins all have an N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain, a serine/threonine-specific kinase domain and a C-terminal regulatory domain. These proteins are phosphorylated by phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). AKT/PI3K forms a key component of many signalling pathways that involve the binding of membrane-bound ligands such as receptor tyrosine kinases, G-protein coupled receptors, and integrin-linked kinase. These AKT proteins therefore regulate a wide variety of cellular functions including cell proliferation, survival, metabolism, and angiogenesis in both normal and malignant cells. AKT proteins are recruited to the cell membrane by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) after phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) by PI3K. Subsequent phosphorylation of both threonine residue 308 and serine residue 473 is required for full activation of the AKT1 protein encoded by this gene. Phosphorylation of additional residues also occurs, for example, in response to insulin growth factor-1 and epidermal growth factor. Protein phosphatases act as negative regulators of AKT proteins by dephosphorylating AKT or PIP3. The PI3K/AKT signalling pathway is crucial for tumor cell survival. Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating AKT1 which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery. AKT proteins also participate in the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathway which controls the assembly of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F (eIF4E) complex and this pathway, in addition to responding to extracellular signals from growth factors and cytokines, is disregulated in many cancers. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple types of cancer and excessive tissue growth including Proteus syndrome and Cowden syndrome 6, and breast, colorectal, and ovarian cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2020]
CASP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid protease that plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. The encoded protein cleaves and inactivates poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase while it cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins as well as caspases 6, 7, and 9. This protein itself is processed by caspases 8, 9, and 10. It is the predominant caspase involved in the cleavage of amyloid-beta 4A precursor protein, which is associated with neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
CCNY: Cyclins, such as CCNY, control cell division cycles and regulate cyclin-dependent kinases (e.g., CDC2; MIM 116940) (Li et al., 2009 [PubMed 18060517]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2009]
CDK5R1: The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activator of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required for proper development of the central nervous system. The p35 form of this protein is proteolytically cleaved by calpain, generating a p25 form. The cleavage of p35 into p25 results in relocalization of the protein from the cell periphery to nuclear and perinuclear regions. P25 deregulates CDK5 activity by prolonging its activation and changing its cellular location. The p25 form accumulates in the brain neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease. This accumulation correlates with an increase in CDK5 kinase activity, and may lead to aberrantly phosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau, which contributes to Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HSPB1: This gene encodes a member of the small heat shock protein (HSP20) family of proteins. In response to environmental stress, the encoded protein translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and functions as a molecular chaperone that promotes the correct folding of other proteins. This protein plays an important role in the differentiation of a wide variety of cell types. Expression of this gene is correlated with poor clinical outcome in multiple human cancers, and the encoded protein may promote cancer cell proliferation and metastasis, while protecting cancer cells from apoptosis. Mutations in this gene have been identified in human patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and distal hereditary motor neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
IRGM: This gene encodes a member of the p47 immunity-related GTPase family. The encoded protein may play a role in the innate immune response by regulating autophagy formation in response to intracellular pathogens. Polymorphisms that affect the normal expression of this gene are associated with a susceptibility to Crohn's disease and tuberculosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]
KAT5: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the MYST family of histone acetyl transferases (HATs) and was originally isolated as an HIV-1 TAT-interactive protein. HATs play important roles in regulating chromatin remodeling, transcription and other nuclear processes by acetylating histone and nonhistone proteins. This protein is a histone acetylase that has a role in DNA repair and apoptosis and is thought to play an important role in signal transduction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MLST8: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in TORC1 signaling; positive regulation of TOR signaling; and regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization. Part of TORC1 complex and TORC2 complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
NOD2: This gene is a member of the Nod1/Apaf-1 family and encodes a protein with two caspase recruitment (CARD) domains and six leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). The protein is primarily expressed in the peripheral blood leukocytes. It plays a role in the immune response to intracellular bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by recognizing the muramyl dipeptide (MDP) derived from them and activating the NFKB protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Crohn disease and Blau syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]
PIK3CA: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is composed of an 85 kDa regulatory subunit and a 110 kDa catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit, which uses ATP to phosphorylate PtdIns, PtdIns4P and PtdIns(4,5)P2. This gene has been found to be oncogenic and has been implicated in cervical cancers. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]
RPTOR: This gene encodes a component of a signaling pathway that regulates cell growth in response to nutrient and insulin levels. The encoded protein forms a stoichiometric complex with the mTOR kinase, and also associates with eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein-1 and ribosomal protein S6 kinase. The protein positively regulates the downstream effector ribosomal protein S6 kinase, and negatively regulates the mTOR kinase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]
SMCR8: Enables protein kinase binding activity and protein kinase inhibitor activity. Contributes to guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. Involved in negative regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; regulation of TOR signaling; and regulation of macroautophagy. Located in chromatin; cytoplasm; and nucleoplasm. Part of guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor complex. Colocalizes with Atg1/ULK1 kinase complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SNCA: Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includes beta- and gamma-synuclein. Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brain and alpha- and beta-synuclein inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively. SNCA may serve to integrate presynaptic signaling and membrane trafficking. Defects in SNCA have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]
STING1: This gene encodes a five transmembrane protein that functions as a major regulator of the innate immune response to viral and bacterial infections. The encoded protein is a pattern recognition receptor that detects cytosolic nucleic acids and transmits signals that activate type I interferon responses. The encoded protein has also been shown to play a role in apoptotic signaling by associating with type II major histocompatibility complex. Mutations in this gene are the cause of infantile-onset STING-associated vasculopathy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]
STK11: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates cell polarity and energy metabolism and functions as a tumor suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the autosomal dominant Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, as well as with skin, pancreatic, and testicular cancers. [provided by RefSeq, May 2022]
TAB2: The protein encoded by this gene is an activator of MAP3K7/TAK1, which is required for for the IL-1 induced activation of nuclear factor kappaB and MAPK8/JNK. This protein forms a kinase complex with TRAF6, MAP3K7 and TAB1, and it thus serves as an adaptor that links MAP3K7 and TRAF6. This protein, along with TAB1 and MAP3K7, also participates in the signal transduction induced by TNFSF11/RANKl through the activation of the receptor activator of NF-kappaB (TNFRSF11A/RANK), which may regulate the development and function of osteoclasts. Studies of the related mouse protein indicate that it functions to protect against liver damage caused by chemical stressors. Mutations in this gene cause congenital heart defects, multiple types, 2 (CHTD2). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]
TRIB3: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative protein kinase that is induced by the transcription factor NF-kappaB. The encoded protein is a negative regulator of NF-kappaB and can also sensitize cells to TNF- and TRAIL-induced apoptosis. In addition, this protein can negatively regulate the cell survival serine-threonine kinase AKT1. Differential promoter usage and alternate splicing result in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]
////
TNXB: This gene encodes a member of the tenascin family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins. The tenascins have anti-adhesive effects, as opposed to fibronectin which is adhesive. This protein is thought to function in matrix maturation during wound healing, and its deficiency has been associated with the connective tissue disorder Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. It is one of four genes in this cluster which have been duplicated. The duplicated copy of this geneis incomplete and is a pseudogene which is transcribed but does not encodea protein. The structure of this gene is unusual in that it overlaps the CREBL1and CYP21A2 genes at its 5'' and 3'' ends, respectively. Multiple transcriptvariants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
C1R: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encodedprotein is a proteolytic subunit in the complement system C1 complex. Thecomplement system acts as a mediator in the innate immune response by ultimatelytriggering phagocytosis, inflammation, and rupturing the bacterial cell wall.Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome. [providedby RefSeq, Dec 2018]
C1S: This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent ofthe human complement subcomponent C1. C1s associates with two other complementcomponents C1r and C1q in order to yield the first component of the serumcomplement system. Defects in this gene are the cause of selective C1s deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]
B3GALT6: The enzyme encoded by this intronless gene is a beta-1,3-galactosyltransferasefound in the medial Golgi apparatus, where it catalyzes the transfer of galactosefrom UDP-galactose to substrates containing a terminal beta-linked galactosemoiety. The encoded enzyme has a particular affinity for galactose-beta-1,4-xylosefound in the linker region of glycosamines. This enzyme is required for glycosaminoglycansynthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]
FKBP14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the FK506-bindingprotein family of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases. The encoded proteinis found in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, where it is thought toaccelerate protein folding. Defects in this gene are a cause of a type ofEhlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). Both a protein-coding variant and noncodingvariants are transcribed from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]
SLC39A13: This gene encodes a member of the LIV-1 subfamily of the ZIP transporterfamily. The encoded transmembrane protein functions as a zinc transporter.Mutations in this gene have been associated with the spondylocheiro dysplasticform of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Alternate transcript variants have been foundfor this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
DSE: The protein encoded by this gene is a tumor-rejection antigen. It islocalized to the endoplasmic reticulum and functions to convert D-glucuronicacid to L-iduronic acid during the biosynthesis of dermatan sulfate. Thisantigen possesses tumor epitopes capable of inducing HLA-A24-restricted andtumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in cancer patients and may be usefulfor specific immunotherapy. Mutations in this gene cause inmusculocontracturalEhlers-Danlos syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcriptvariants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 9, and aparalogous gene exists on chromosome 18. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]
COL12A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XII collagen, a memberof the FACIT (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted triple helices)collagen family. Type XII collagen is a homotrimer found in association withtype I collagen, an association that is thought to modify the interactionsbetween collagen I fibrils and the surrounding matrix. Alternatively splicedtranscript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ADAMTS2: This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinasewith thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share severaldistinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinasedomain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif.Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs,and some have unique C-terminal domains. The encoded preproprotein is proteolyticallyprocessed to generate the mature procollagen N-proteinase. This proteinaseexcises the N-propeptide of the fibrillar procollagens types I-III and typeV. Mutations in this gene cause Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIC, a recessivelyinherited connective-tissue disorder. Alternative splicing results in multipletranscript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolyticallyprocessed. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]
COL1A2: This gene encodes the pro-alpha2 chain of type I collagen whose triplehelix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-formingcollagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea,dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesisimperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIB, recessive Ehlers-Danlossyndrome Classical type, idiopathic osteoporosis, and atypical Marfan syndrome.Symptoms associated with mutations in this gene, however, tend to be lesssevere than mutations in the gene for the alpha1 chain of type I collagen(COL1A1) reflecting the different role of alpha2 chains in matrix integrity.Three transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals,have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]
COL3A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillarcollagen that is found in extensible connective tissues such as skin, lung,uterus, intestine and the vascular system, frequently in association withtype I collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlossyndrome type IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms. [provided by R.Dalgleish, Feb 2008]
COL5A1: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containingtype I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fiberscomposed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closelyrelated to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains oftypes V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chaincombinations. The encoded procollagen protein occurs commonly as the heterotrimerpro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha2(V). Mutations in this gene are associatedwith Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II. Alternative splicing of thisgene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]
COL5A2: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containingtype I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fiberscomposed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closelyrelated to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains oftypes V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chaincombinations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome,types I and II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ZNF469: This gene encodes a zinc-finger protein. Low-percent homology to certaincollagens suggests that it may function as a transcription factor or extra-nuclearregulator factor for the synthesis or organization of collagen fibers. Mutationsin this gene cause brittle cornea syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CHST14: This gene encodes a member of the HNK-1 family of sulfotransferases.The encoded protein transfers sulfate to the C-4 hydroxyl of N-acetylgalactosamineresidues in dermatan sulfate. Mutations in this gene have been associatedwith adducted thumb-clubfoot syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]
AEBP1: This gene encodes a member of carboxypeptidase A protein family. Theencoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor and play a rolein adipogenesis and smooth muscle cell differentiation. Studies in mice suggestthat this gene functions in wound healing and abdominal wall development.Overexpression of this gene is associated with glioblastoma. [provided byRefSeq, May 2013]
PLOD1: Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localizedto the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors ironand ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-likepeptides. The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydratesin collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks.Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VI have deficiencies in lysylhydroxylase activity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoformshave been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
B4GALT7: This gene is a member of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)family. Family members encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appearto have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose. Eachbeta4GalT member has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of differentglycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, theyhave an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein tothe Golgi apparatus which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembraneanchor. The enzyme encoded by this gene attaches the first galactose in thecommon carbohydrate-protein linkage (GlcA-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,4-Xyl-beta1-O-Ser)found in proteoglycans. This enzyme differs from other beta4GalTs becauseit lacks the conserved Cys residues found in beta4GalT1-beta4GalT6 and itis located in cis-Golgi instead of trans-Golgi. Mutations in this gene havebeen associated with the progeroid form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. [providedby RefSeq, Oct 2009]
PRDM5: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor of the PR-domainprotein family. It contains a PR-domain and multiple zinc finger motifs. Transcriptionfactors of the PR-domain family are known to be involved in cell differentiationand tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
////
FANCD2: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup D2. This protein is monoubiquinated in response to DNA damage, resultingin its localization to nuclear foci with other proteins (BRCA1 AND BRCA2)involved in homology-directed DNA repair. Alternative splicing results inmultiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]
FANCA: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms. Mutations in this gene are the most common cause of Fanconianemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FANCB: This gene encodes a member of the Fanconi anemia complementation groupB. This protein is assembled into a nucleoprotein complex that is involvedin the repair of DNA lesions. Mutations in this gene can cause chromosomeinstability and VACTERL syndrome with hydrocephalus. [provided by RefSeq,Apr 2016]
FANCE: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup E. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FANCF: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup F. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BRCA2: Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increasedlifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the homologousrecombination pathway for double-strand DNA repair. The largest exon in bothgenes is exon 11, which harbors the most important and frequent mutationsin breast cancer patients. The BRCA2 gene was found on chromosome 13q12.3in human. The BRCA2 protein contains several copies of a 70 aa motif calledthe BRC motif, and these motifs mediate binding to the RAD51 recombinase whichfunctions in DNA repair. BRCA2 is considered a tumor suppressor gene, as tumorswith BRCA2 mutations generally exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of thewild-type allele. [provided by RefSeq, May 2020]
FANCI: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup I. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BRIP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DEAH helicasefamily and interacts with the BRCT repeats of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1).The bound complex is important in the normal double-strand break repair functionof breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). This gene may be a target of germline cancer-inducingmutations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PALB2: This gene encodes a protein that may function in tumor suppression.This protein binds to and colocalizes with the breast cancer 2 early onsetprotein (BRCA2) in nuclear foci and likely permits the stable intranuclearlocalization and accumulation of BRCA2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RAD51C: This gene is a member of the RAD51 family. RAD51 family members arehighly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51 and areknown to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. Thisprotein can interact with other RAD51 paralogs and is reported to be importantfor Holliday junction resolution. Mutations in this gene are associated withFanconi anemia-like syndrome. This gene is one of four localized to a regionof chromosome 17q23 where amplification occurs frequently in breast tumors.Overexpression of the four genes during amplification has been observed andsuggests a possible role in tumor progression. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
SLX4: This gene encodes a protein that functions as an assembly componentof multiple structure-specific endonucleases. These endonuclease complexesare required for repair of specific types of DNA lesions and critical forcellular responses to replication fork failure. Mutations in this gene werefound in patients with Fanconi anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]
FANCG: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementationgroup do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assemblyinto a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementationgroup G. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FANCL: This gene encodes a ubiquitin ligase that is a member of the Fanconianemia complementation group (FANC). Members of this group are related bytheir assembly into a common nuclear protein complex rather than by sequencesimilarity. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group L thatmediates monoubiquitination of FANCD2 as well as FANCI. Fanconi anemia isa genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogeneticinstability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomalbreakage, and defective DNA repair. Alternative splicing results in multipletranscript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2018]
ERCC4: The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with ERCC1 and isinvolved in the 5'' incision made during nucleotide excision repair. Thiscomplex is a structure specific DNA repair endonuclease that interacts withEME1. Defects in this gene are a cause of xeroderma pigmentosum complementationgroup F (XP-F), or xeroderma pigmentosum VI (XP6).[provided by RefSeq, Mar2009]
UBE2T: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the covalent attachmentof ubiquitin to protein substrates. Defects in this gene have been associatedwith Fanconi anemia of complementation group T. Two transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul2015]
MAD2L2: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the mitotic spindleassembly checkpoint that prevents the onset of anaphase until all chromosomesare properly aligned at the metaphase plate. The encoded protein, which issimilar to MAD2L1, is capable of interacting with ADAM9, ADAM15, REV1, andREV3 proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RAD51: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family.RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombinationand repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ssDNA-binding proteinRPA and RAD52, and it is thought to play roles in homologous pairing and strandtransfer of DNA. This protein is also found to interact with BRCA1 and BRCA2,which may be important for the cellular response to DNA damage. BRCA2 is shownto regulate both the intracellular localization and DNA-binding ability ofthis protein. Loss of these controls following BRCA2 inactivation may be akey event leading to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcriptvariants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [providedby RefSeq, Aug 2009]
XRCC2: This gene encodes a member of the RecA/Rad51-related protein familythat participates in homologous recombination to maintain chromosome stabilityand repair DNA damage. This gene is involved in the repair of DNA double-strandbreaks by homologous recombination and it functionally complements Chinesehamster irs1, a repair-deficient mutant that exhibits hypersensitivity toa number of different DNA-damaging agents. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
////
C1R: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encoded protein is a proteolytic subunit in the complement system C1 complex. The complement system acts as a mediator in the innate immune response by ultimately triggering phagocytosis, inflammation, and rupturing the bacterial cell wall. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2018]
CASQ2: The protein encoded by this gene specifies the cardiac muscle family member of the calsequestrin family. Calsequestrin is localized to the sarcoplasmic reticulum in cardiac and slow skeletal muscle cells. The protein is a calcium binding protein that stores calcium for muscle function. Mutations in this gene cause stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, also referred to as catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia 2 (CPVT2), a disease characterized by bidirectional ventricular tachycardia that may lead to cardiac arrest. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CASTOR1: Enables arginine binding activity and identical protein binding activity. Involved in cellular response to L-arginine and negative regulation of TORC1 signaling. Located in cytosol. Colocalizes with GATOR2 complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of this gene is tightly controlled by the tumor suppressor protein p53, through which this protein mediates the p53-dependent cell cycle G1 phase arrest in response to a variety of stress stimuli. This protein can interact with proliferating cell nuclear antigen, a DNA polymerase accessory factor, and plays a regulatory role in S phase DNA replication and DNA damage repair. This protein was reported to be specifically cleaved by CASP3-like caspases, which thus leads to a dramatic activation of cyclin-dependent kinase2, and may be instrumental in the execution of apoptosis following caspase activation. Mice that lack this gene have the ability to regenerate damaged or missing tissue. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]
DDX56: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene shows ATPase activity in the presence of polynucleotides and associates with nucleoplasmic 65S preribosomal particles. This gene may be involved in ribosome synthesis, most likely during assembly of the large 60S ribosomal subunit. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]
EPN1: This gene encodes a member of the epsin protein family. The encoded protein binds clathrin and is involved in the endocytosis of clathrin-coated vesicles. Loss of function of this gene is associated with reduced tumor growth and progression in certain cancer types. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016]
FTH1: This gene encodes the heavy subunit of ferritin, the major intracellular iron storage protein in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is composed of 24 subunits of the heavy and light ferritin chains. Variation in ferritin subunit composition may affect the rates of iron uptake and release in different tissues. A major function of ferritin is the storage of iron in a soluble and nontoxic state. Defects in ferritin proteins are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GOPC: This gene encodes a Golgi protein with a PDZ domain. The PDZ domain is globular and proteins which contain them bind other proteins through short motifs near the C-termini. Mice which are deficient in the orthologous protein have globozoospermia and are infertile. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]
HSPBP1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and positive regulation of protein ubiquitination. Predicted to be active in endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
IMPACT: Predicted to enable actin binding activity and ribosome binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including GCN2-mediated signaling; cellular response to starvation; and negative regulation of nitrogen compound metabolic process. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be part of polysome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
INSIG1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein that regulates cholesterol metabolism, lipogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. The encoded protein has six transmembrane helices which contain an effector protein binding site. It binds the sterol-sensing domains of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP) cleavage-activating protein (SCAP) and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase), and is essential for the sterol-mediated trafficking of these two proteins. It promotes the endoplasmic reticulum retention of SCAP and the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of HMG-CoA reductase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]
INSIG2: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the protein product encoded by gene INSIG1. Both INSIG1 protein and this protein are endoplasmic reticulum proteins that block the processing of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) by binding to SREBP cleavage-activating protein (SCAP), and thus prevent SCAP from escorting SREBPs to the Golgi. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
LAPTM5: This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor that is associated with lysosomes. The encoded protein, also known as E3 protein, may play a role in hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]
LCN2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the lipocalin family. Members of this family transport small hydrophobic molecules such as lipids, steroid hormones and retinoids. The protein encoded by this gene is a neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and plays a role in innate immunity by limiting bacterial growth as a result of sequestering iron-containing siderophores. The presence of this protein in blood and urine is an early biomarker of acute kidney injury. This protein is thought to be be involved in multiple cellular processes, including maintenance of skin homeostasis, and suppression of invasiveness and metastasis. Mice lacking this gene are more susceptible to bacterial infection than wild type mice. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]
NFKBIA: This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which contain multiple ankrin repeat domains. The encoded protein interacts with REL dimers to inhibit NF-kappa-B/REL complexes which are involved in inflammatory responses. The encoded protein moves between the cytoplasm and the nucleus via a nuclear localization signal and CRM1-mediated nuclear export. Mutations in this gene have been found in ectodermal dysplasia anhidrotic with T-cell immunodeficiency autosomal dominant disease. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
PRDX4: The protein encoded by this gene is an antioxidant enzyme and belongs to the peroxiredoxin family. The protein is localized to the cytoplasm. Peroxidases of the peroxiredoxin family reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides to water and alcohol with the use of reducing equivalents derived from thiol-containing donor molecules. This protein has been found to play a regulatory role in the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PRNP: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats. This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene. Mutations in the repeat region as well as elsewhere in this gene have been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fatal familial insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler disease, Huntington disease-like 1, and kuru. An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
S100A7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localized in the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved in the regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progression and differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are located as a cluster on chromosome 1q21. This protein differs from the other S100 proteins of known structure in its lack of calcium binding ability in one EF-hand at the N-terminus. The protein is overexpressed in hyperproliferative skin diseases, exhibits antimicrobial activities against bacteria and induces immunomodulatory activities. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
SEC14L1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SEC14 cytosolic factor family. It has similarity to yeast SEC14 and to Japanese flying squid RALBP which suggests a possible role of the gene product in an intracellular transport system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene; some variants represent read-through transcripts that include exons from the upstream gene C17orf86. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]
SESN2: This gene encodes a member of the sestrin family of PA26-related proteins. The encoded protein may function in the regulation of cell growth and survival. This protein may be involved in cellular response to different stress conditions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SLC39A4: This gene encodes a member of the zinc/iron-regulated transporter-like protein (ZIP) family. The encoded protein localizes to cell membranes and is required for zinc uptake in the intestine. Mutations in this gene result in acrodermatitis enteropathica. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
SPI1: This gene encodes an ETS-domain transcription factor that activates gene expression during myeloid and B-lymphoid cell development. The nuclear protein binds to a purine-rich sequence known as the PU-box found near the promoters of target genes, and regulates their expression in coordination with other transcription factors and cofactors. The protein can also regulate alternative splicing of target genes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
STAT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein is activated through phosphorylation in response to various cytokines and growth factors including IFNs, EGF, IL5, IL6, HGF, LIF and BMP2. This protein mediates the expression of a variety of genes in response to cell stimuli, and thus plays a key role in many cellular processes such as cell growth and apoptosis. The small GTPase Rac1 has been shown to bind and regulate the activity of this protein. PIAS3 protein is a specific inhibitor of this protein. This gene also plays a role in regulating host response to viral and bacterial infections. Mutations in this gene are associated with infantile-onset multisystem autoimmune disease and hyper-immunoglobulin E syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2020]
TCN1: This gene encodes a member of the vitamin B12-binding protein family. This family of proteins, alternatively referred to as R binders, is expressed in various tissues and secretions. This protein is a major constituent of secondary granules in neutrophils and facilitates the transport of cobalamin into cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TMC8: Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is an autosomal recessive dermatosis characterized by abnormal susceptibility to human papillomaviruses (HPVs) and a high rate of progression to squamous cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin. EV is caused by mutations in either of two adjacent genes located on chromosome 17q25.3. Both of these genes encode integral membrane proteins that localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and are predicted to form transmembrane channels. This gene encodes a transmembrane channel-like protein with 8 predicted transmembrane domains and 3 leucine zipper motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TRIM15: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to the cytoplasm. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TSSC4: This gene is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragments located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene is located among several imprinted genes; however, this gene, as well as the pan-hematopoietic expression gene (PHEMX), escapes imprinting. This gene may play a role in malignancies and disease that involve this region. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]
XAF1: This gene encodes a protein which binds to and counteracts the inhibitory effect of a member of the IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) protein family. IAP proteins bind to and inhibit caspases which are activated during apoptosis. The proportion of IAPs and proteins which interfere with their activity, such as the encoded protein, affect the progress of the apoptosis signaling pathway. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]
YWHAZ: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 99% identical to the mouse, rat and sheep orthologs. The encoded protein interacts with IRS1 protein, suggesting a role in regulating insulin sensitivity. Several transcript variants that differ in the 5' UTR but that encode the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
ZAR1: This maternal effect gene is oocyte-specific and encodes a protein that is thought to function in the initiation of embryogenesis. A similar protein in mouse is required for female fertility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
////
GABBR1: This gene encodes a receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. This receptor functions as a heterodimer with GABA(B) receptor 2. Defects in this gene may underlie brain disorders such as schizophrenia and epilepsy. Alternative splicing generates multiple transcript variants, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
GABRA2: GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]
GABRA3: GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GABRA5: GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Transcript variants utilizing three different alternative non-coding first exons have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GABRB1: The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. This gene encodes GABA A receptor, beta 1 subunit. It is mapped to chromosome 4p12 in a cluster comprised of genes encoding alpha 4, alpha 2 and gamma 1 subunits of the GABA A receptor. Alteration of this gene is implicated in the pathogenetics of schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GABRB2: The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. This gene encodes GABA A receptor, beta 2 subunit. It is mapped to chromosome 5q34 in a cluster comprised of genes encoding alpha 1 and gamma 2 subunits of the GABA A receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants, differing by a 114 bp insertion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GABRR1: GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. GABRR1 is a member of the rho subunit family. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]
GLRA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a pentameric inhibitory glycine receptor, which mediates postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease (STHE), also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015]
GRIA1: Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes with multiple subunits, each possessing transmembrane regions, and all arranged to form a ligand-gated ion channel. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. This gene belongs to a family of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIA3: Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes composed of multiple subunits, arranged to form ligand-gated ion channels. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. The subunit encoded by this gene belongs to a family of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate)-sensitive glutamate receptors, and is subject to RNA editing (AGA->GGA; R->G). Alternative splicing at this locus results in different isoforms, which may vary in their signal transduction properties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIA4: Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes composed of multiple subunits, arranged to form ligand-gated ion channels. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. The subunit encoded by this gene belongs to a family of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate)-sensitive glutamate receptors, and is subject to RNA editing (AGA->GGA; R->G). Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, which may vary in their signal transduction properties. Some haplotypes of this gene show a positive association with schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIK2: Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. The subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing at multiple sites within the first and second transmembrane domains, which is thought to alter the structure and function of the receptor complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive cognitive disability. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIK3: Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. It is not certain if the subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing as the other 2 family members (GRIK1 and GRIK2). A Ser310Ala polymorphism has been associated with schizophrenia, and there are conflicting reports of its association with the pathogenesis of delirium tremens in alcoholics. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIK4: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the glutamate-gated ionic channel family. Glutamate functions as the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system through activation of ligand-gated ion channels and G protein-coupled membrane receptors. The protein encoded by this gene forms functional heteromeric kainate-preferring ionic channels with the subunits encoded by related gene family members. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]
GRIK5: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the glutamate-gated ionic channel family. Glutamate functions as the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system through activation of ligand-gated ion channels and G protein-coupled membrane receptors. The protein encoded by this gene forms functional heteromeric kainate-preferring ionic channels with the subunits encoded by related gene family members. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]
GRIN2B: This gene encodes a member of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor family within the ionotropic glutamate receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a subunit of the NMDA receptor ion channel which acts as an agonist binding site for glutamate. The NMDA receptors mediate a slow calcium-permeable component of excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The NMDA receptors are heterotetramers of seven genetically encoded, differentially expressed subunits including NR1 (GRIN1), NR2 (GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIN2C, or GRIN2D) and NR3 (GRIN3A or GRIN3B). The early expression of this gene in development suggests a role in brain development, circuit formation, synaptic plasticity, and cellular migration and differentiation. Naturally occurring mutations within this gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
GRIN2D: N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a class of ionotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA channel has been shown to be involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. NMDA receptor channels are heteromers composed of the key receptor subunit NMDAR1 (GRIN1) and 1 or more of the 4 NMDAR2 subunits: NMDAR2A (GRIN2A), NMDAR2B (GRIN2B), NMDAR2C (GRIN2C), and NMDAR2D (GRIN2D). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]
GRIN3B: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The encoded protein is found primarily in motor neurons, where it forms a heterotetramer with GRIN1 to create an excitatory glycine receptor. Variations in this gene have been proposed to be linked to schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015]
KCNA1: This gene encodes a voltage-gated delayed potassium channel that is phylogenetically related to the Drosophila Shaker channel. The encoded protein has six putative transmembrane segments (S1-S6), and the loop between S5 and S6 forms the pore and contains the conserved selectivity filter motif (GYGD). The functional channel is a homotetramer. The N-terminus of the channel is associated with beta subunits that can modify the inactivation properties of the channel as well as affect expression levels. The C-terminus of the channel is complexed to a PDZ domain protein that is responsible for channel targeting. Mutations in this gene have been associated with myokymia with periodic ataxia (AEMK). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
KCNA2: Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shaker-related subfamily. This member contains six membrane-spanning domains with a shaker-type repeat in the fourth segment. It belongs to the delayed rectifier class, members of which allow nerve cells to efficiently repolarize following an action potential. The coding region of this gene is intronless, and the gene is clustered with genes KCNA3 and KCNA10 on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
KCNA4: Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shaker-related subfamily. This member contains six membrane-spanning domains with a shaker-type repeat in the fourth segment. It belongs to the A-type potassium current class, the members of which may be important in the regulation of the fast repolarizing phase of action potentials in heart and thus may influence the duration of cardiac action potential.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]
KCNC1: This gene encodes a member of a family of integral membrane proteins that mediate the voltage-dependent potassium ion permeability of excitable membranes. Alternative splicing is thought to result in two transcript variants encoding isoforms that differ at their C-termini. These isoforms have had conflicting names in the literature: the longer isoform has been called both "b" and "alpha", while the shorter isoform has been called both "a" and "beta" (PMIDs 1432046, 12091563). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]
KCNC2: The Shaker gene family of Drosophila encodes components of voltage-gated potassium channels and is comprised of four subfamilies. Based on sequence similarity, this gene is similar to one of these subfamilies, namely the Shaw subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the delayed rectifier class of channel proteins and is an integral membrane protein that mediates the voltage-dependent potassium ion permeability of excitable membranes. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
KCNJ11: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and is found associated with the sulfonylurea receptor SUR. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by unregulated insulin secretion. Defects in this gene may also contribute to autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II (NIDDM), transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 3 (TNDM3), and permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (PNDM). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
KCNJ3: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and plays an important role in regulating heartbeat. It associates with three other G-protein-activated potassium channels to form a heteromultimeric pore-forming complex that also couples to neurotransmitter receptors in the brain and whereby channel activation can inhibit action potential firing by hyperpolarizing the plasma membrane. These multimeric G-protein-gated inwardly-rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels may play a role in the pathophysiology of epilepsy, addiction, Down's syndrome, ataxia, and Parkinson's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
KCNJ8: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins. Defects in this gene may be a cause of J-wave syndromes and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
KCNJ9: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins. It associates with another G-protein-activated potassium channel to form a heteromultimeric pore-forming complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
KCNMB4: MaxiK channels are large conductance, voltage and calcium-sensitive potassium channels which are fundamental to the control of smooth muscle tone and neuronal excitability. MaxiK channels can be formed by 2 subunits: the pore-forming alpha subunit and the modulatory beta subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is an auxiliary beta subunit which slows activation kinetics, leads to steeper calcium sensitivity, and shifts the voltage range of current activation to more negative potentials than does the beta 1 subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SCN10A: The protein encoded by this gene is a tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunit. The properties of the channel formed by the encoded transmembrane protein can be altered by interaction with different beta subunits. This protein may be involved in the onset of pain associated with peripheral neuropathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]
SCN1A: Voltage-dependent sodium channels are heteromeric complexes that regulate sodium exchange between intracellular and extracellular spaces and are essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials in muscle cells and neurons. Each sodium channel is composed of a large pore-forming, glycosylated alpha subunit and two smaller beta subunits. This gene encodes a sodium channel alpha subunit, which has four homologous domains, each of which contains six transmembrane regions. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures and epileptic encephalopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The RefSeq Project has decided to create four representative RefSeq records. Three of the transcript variants are supported by experimental evidence and the fourth contains alternate 5' untranslated exons, the exact combination of which have not been experimentally confirmed for the full-length transcript. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
////
APH1A: This gene encodes a component of the gamma secretase complex that cleaves integral membrane proteins such as Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein. The gamma secretase complex contains this gene product, or the paralogous anterior pharynx defective 1 homolog B (APH1B), along with the presenilin, nicastrin, and presenilin enhancer-2 proteins. The precise function of this seven-transmembrane-domain protein is unknown though it is suspected of facilitating the association of nicastrin and presenilin in the gamma secretase complex as well as interacting with substrates of the gamma secretase complex prior to their proteolytic processing. Polymorphisms in a promoter region of this gene have been associated with an increased risk for developing sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple protein-coding and non-protein-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
ARRB1: Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. Arrestin beta 1 is a cytosolic protein and acts as a cofactor in the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (BARK) mediated desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors. Besides the central nervous system, it is expressed at high levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, and thus the BARK/beta-arrestin system is believed to play a major role in regulating receptor-mediated immune functions. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms of arrestin beta 1 have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with tumor suppressor protein Rb and the expression of this gene is regulated positively by Rb. Mutations, amplification and overexpression of this gene, which alters cell cycle progression, are observed frequently in a variety of human cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2019]
CUL1: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and protein ubiquitination. Located in plasma membrane. Part of Parkin-FBXW7-Cul1 ubiquitin ligase complex and SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
DLL1: DLL1 is a human homolog of the Notch Delta ligand and is a member of the delta/serrate/jagged family.  It plays a role in mediating cell fate decisions during hematopoiesis. It may play a role in cell-to-cell communication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
DTX1: Studies in Drosophila have identified this gene as encoding a positive regulator of the Notch-signaling pathway. The human gene encodes a protein of unknown function; however, it may play a role in basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
DTX2: DTX2 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase (Takeyama et al., 2003 [PubMed 12670957]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2009]
DTX4: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in Notch signaling pathway and protein ubiquitination. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be active in nucleoplasm. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
FBXW11: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbws class and, in addition to an F-box, contains multiple WD40 repeats. This gene contains at least 14 exons, and its alternative splicing generates 3 transcript variants diverging at the presence/absence of two alternate exons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FZD1: Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD1 protein contains a signal peptide, a cysteine-rich domain in the N-terminal extracellular region, 7 transmembrane domains, and a C-terminal PDZ domain-binding motif.  The FZD1 transcript is expressed in various tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FZD5: Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD5 protein is believed to be the receptor for the Wnt5A ligand. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FZD7: Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD7 protein contains an N-terminal signal sequence, 10 cysteine residues typical of the cysteine-rich extracellular domain of Fz family members, 7 putative transmembrane domains, and an intracellular C-terminal tail with a PDZ domain-binding motif.  FZD7 gene expression may downregulate APC function and enhance beta-catenin-mediated signals in poorly differentiated human esophageal carcinomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HES1: This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors. It is a transcriptional repressor of genes that require a bHLH protein for their transcription. The protein has a particular type of basic domain that contains a helix interrupting protein that binds to the N-box rather than the canonical E-box. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HEYL: This gene encodes a member of the hairy and enhancer of split-related (HESR) family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type transcription factors. The sequence of the encoded protein contains a conserved bHLH and orange domain, but its YRPW motif has diverged from other HESR family members. It is thought to be an effector of Notch signaling and a regulator of cell fate decisions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
JAG1: The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein. Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, the latter is involved in signaling processes. Mutations that alter the jagged 1 protein cause Alagille syndrome. Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 has also been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2019]
KAT2A: KAT2A, or GCN5, is a histone acetyltransferase (HAT) that functions primarily as a transcriptional activator. It also functions as a repressor of NF-kappa-B (see MIM 164011) by promoting ubiquitination of the NF-kappa-B subunit RELA (MIM 164014) in a HAT-independent manner (Mao et al., 2009 [PubMed 19339690]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2009]
LFNG: This gene is a member of the glycosyltransferase 31 gene family. Members of this gene family, which also includes the MFNG (GeneID: 4242) and RFNG (GeneID: 5986) genes, encode evolutionarily conserved glycosyltransferases that act in the Notch signaling pathway to define boundaries during embryonic development. While their genomic structure is distinct from other glycosyltransferases, these proteins have a fucose-specific beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity that leads to elongation of O-linked fucose residues on Notch, which alters Notch signaling. The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a single-pass type II Golgi membrane protein but it may also be secreted and proteolytically processed like the related proteins in mouse and Drosophila (PMID: 9187150). Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis 3. [provided by RefSeq, May 2018]
MAML2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Mastermind-like family of proteins. All family members are proline and glutamine-rich, and contain a conserved basic domain that binds the ankyrin repeat domain of the intracellular domain of the Notch receptors (ICN1-4) in their N-terminus, and a transcriptional activation domain in their C-terminus. This protein binds to an extended groove that is formed by the interaction of CBF1, Suppressor of Hairless, LAG-1 (CSL) with ICN, and positively regulates Notch signaling. High levels of expression of this gene have been observed in several B cell-derived lymphomas. Translocations resulting in fusion proteins with both CRTC1 and CRTC3 have been implicated in the development of mucoepidermoid carcinomas, while a translocation event with CXCR4 has been linked with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Copy number variation in the polyglutamine tract has been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]
NOTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types. Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor. This receptor plays a role in the development of numerous cell and tissue types. Mutations in this gene are associated with aortic valve disease, Adams-Oliver syndrome, T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
NOTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type 1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, different domain types. Notch family members play a role in a variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. The Notch signaling network is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway which regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signaling pathway that plays a key role in development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remain to be determined. This protein is cleaved in the trans-Golgi network, and presented on the cell surface as a heterodimer. This protein functions as a receptor for membrane bound ligands, and may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]
NOTCH3: This gene encodes the third discovered human homologue of the Drosophilia melanogaster type I membrane protein notch. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signalling pathway that plays a key role in neural development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remains to be determined. Mutations in NOTCH3 have been identified as the underlying cause of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PPARD: This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) family. The encoded protein is thought to function as an integrator of transcriptional repression and nuclear receptor signaling. It may inhibit the ligand-induced transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator activated receptors alpha and gamma, though evidence for this effect is inconsistent. Expression of this gene in colorectal cancer cells may be variable but is typically relatively low. Knockout studies in mice suggested a role for this protein in myelination of the corpus callosum, lipid metabolism, differentiation, and epidermal cell proliferation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
PRKCA: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This kinase has been reported to play roles in many different cellular processes, such as cell adhesion, cell transformation, cell cycle checkpoint, and cell volume control. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this kinase may be a fundamental regulator of cardiac contractility and Ca(2+) handling in myocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PSEN2: Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor such that, they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity, or themselves act are protease enzymes. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of PSEN2 have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PSENEN: Presenilins, which are components of the gamma-secretase protein complex, are required for intramembranous processing of some type I transmembrane proteins, such as the Notch proteins and the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Signaling by Notch receptors mediates a wide range of developmental cell fates. Processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein generates neurotoxic amyloid beta peptides, the major component of senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. This gene encodes a protein that is required for Notch pathway signaling, and for the activity and accumulation of gamma-secretase. Mutations resulting in haploinsufficiency for this gene cause familial acne inversa-2 (ACNINV2). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
RBX1: This locus encodes a RING finger-like domain-containing protein. The encoded protein interacts with cullin proteins and likely plays a role in ubiquitination processes necessary for cell cycle progression. This protein may also affect protein turnover. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 2 and 5.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]
SAP30: Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed by multisubunit complexes. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the histone deacetylase complex, which includes SIN3, SAP18, HDAC1, HDAC2, RbAp46, RbAp48, and other polypeptides. This complex is active in deacetylating core histone octamers, but inactive in deacetylating nucleosomal histones. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SKP1: This gene encodes a component of SCF complexes, which are composed of this protein, cullin 1, a ring-box protein, and one member of the F-box family of proteins. This protein binds directly to the F-box motif found in F-box proteins. SCF complexes are involved in the regulated ubiquitination of specific protein substrates, which targets them for degradation by the proteosome. Specific F-box proteins recognize different target protein(s), and many specific SCF substrates have been identified including regulators of cell cycle progression and development. Studies have also characterized the protein as an RNA polymerase II elongation factor. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ST3GAL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the sialyltransferase family. Members of this family are enzymes that transfer sialic acid from the activated cytidine 5'-monophospho-N-acetylneuraminic acid to terminal positions on sialylated glycolipids (gangliosides) or to the N- or O-linked sugar chains of glycoproteins. This protein has high specificity for neolactotetraosylceramide and neolactohexaosylceramide as glycolipid substrates and may contribute to the formation of selectin ligands and sialyl Lewis X, a carbohydrate important for cell-to-cell recognition and a blood group antigen. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]
TCF7L2: This gene encodes a high mobility group (HMG) box-containing transcription factor that plays a key role in the Wnt signaling pathway. The protein has been implicated in blood glucose homeostasis. Genetic variants of this gene are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes. Several transcript variants encoding multiple different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]
WNT2: This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
WNT5A: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene encodes a member of the WNT family that signals through both the canonical and non-canonical WNT pathways. This protein is a ligand for the seven transmembrane receptor frizzled-5 and the tyrosine kinase orphan receptor 2. This protein plays an essential role in regulating developmental pathways during embryogenesis. This protein may also play a role in oncogenesis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]
////
ATP2B1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ATP2B2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CACNA1C: This gene encodes an alpha-1 subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. The alpha-1 subunit consists of 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. The calcium channel consists of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. There are multiple isoforms of each of these proteins, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. The protein encoded by this gene binds to and is inhibited by dihydropyridine. Alternative splicing results in many transcript variants encoding different proteins. Some of the predicted proteins may not produce functional ion channel subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]
CACNG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. The AMPA subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors are ligand gated ion channels that are typically activated by glutamate released from presynaptic neuron terminals and mediate fast neurotransmission in excitatory synapses. TARPs thus play an important role in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. Mutations in this gene cause an autosomal dominant form of cognitive disability. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017]
CACNG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family. This gene is a susceptibility locus for childhood absence epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
CACNG4: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type II TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
CACNG5: The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type I TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
CACNG7: The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type I TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
CACNG8: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type II TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. The mRNA for this gene is believed to initiate translation from a non-AUG (CUG) start codon. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
CHRNA10: Predicted to enable acetylcholine-gated cation-selective channel activity. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. Predicted to be located in membrane. Predicted to be active in cholinergic synapse and neuron projection. Predicted to be integral component of postsynaptic specialization membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
CHRNA7: The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The nAChRs are thought to be hetero-pentamers composed of homologous subunits. The proposed structure for each subunit is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. The protein encoded by this gene forms a homo-oligomeric channel, displays marked permeability to calcium ions and is a major component of brain nicotinic receptors that are blocked by, and highly sensitive to, alpha-bungarotoxin. Once this receptor binds acetylcholine, it undergoes an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This gene is located in a region identified as a major susceptibility locus for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and a chromosomal location involved in the genetic transmission of schizophrenia. An evolutionarily recent partial duplication event in this region results in a hybrid containing sequence from this gene and a novel FAM7A gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]
CHRNA9: This gene is a member of the ligand-gated ionic channel family and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene superfamily. It encodes a plasma membrane protein that forms homo- or hetero-oligomeric divalent cation channels. This protein is involved in cochlea hair cell development and is also expressed in the outer hair cells (OHCs) of the adult cochlea. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]
DRD2: This gene encodes the D2 subtype of the dopamine receptor. This G-protein coupled receptor inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity. A missense mutation in this gene causes myoclonus dystonia; other mutations have been associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. A third variant has been described, but it has not been determined whether this form is normal or due to aberrant splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
F2R: Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involved in the regulation of thrombotic response. Proteolytic cleavage leads to the activation of the receptor. F2R is a G-protein coupled receptor family member. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015]
GPM6A: Predicted to enable calcium channel activity. Involved in neuron migration and stem cell differentiation. Located in extracellular exosome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
GRIN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a critical subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, members of the glutamate receptor channel superfamily which are heteromeric protein complexes with multiple subunits arranged to form a ligand-gated ion channel. These subunits play a key role in the plasticity of synapses, which is believed to underlie memory and learning. Cell-specific factors are thought to control expression of different isoforms, possibly contributing to the functional diversity of the subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIN2A: This gene encodes a member of the glutamate-gated ion channel protein family. The encoded protein is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit. NMDA receptors are both ligand-gated and voltage-dependent, and are involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. These receptors are permeable to calcium ions, and activation results in a calcium influx into post-synaptic cells, which results in the activation of several signaling cascades. Disruption of this gene is associated with focal epilepsy and speech disorder with or without cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]
GRIN2B: This gene encodes a member of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor family within the ionotropic glutamate receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a subunit of the NMDA receptor ion channel which acts as an agonist binding site for glutamate. The NMDA receptors mediate a slow calcium-permeable component of excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The NMDA receptors are heterotetramers of seven genetically encoded, differentially expressed subunits including NR1 (GRIN1), NR2 (GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIN2C, or GRIN2D) and NR3 (GRIN3A or GRIN3B). The early expression of this gene in development suggests a role in brain development, circuit formation, synaptic plasticity, and cellular migration and differentiation. Naturally occurring mutations within this gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
GRIN2C: This gene encodes a subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which is a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptor. NMDA receptors are found in the central nervous system, are permeable to cations and have an important role in physiological processes such as learning, memory, and synaptic development. The receptor is a tetramer of different subunits (typically heterodimer of subunit 1 with one or more of subunits 2A-D), forming a channel that is permeable to calcium, potassium, and sodium, and whose properties are determined by subunit composition. Alterations in the subunit composition of the receptor are associated with pathophysiological conditions such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression, and schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]
GRIN2D: N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a class of ionotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA channel has been shown to be involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. NMDA receptor channels are heteromers composed of the key receptor subunit NMDAR1 (GRIN1) and 1 or more of the 4 NMDAR2 subunits: NMDAR2A (GRIN2A), NMDAR2B (GRIN2B), NMDAR2C (GRIN2C), and NMDAR2D (GRIN2D). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]
GRIN3A: This gene encodes a subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which belong to the superfamily of glutamate-regulated ion channels, and function in physiological and pathological processes in the central nervous system. This subunit shows greater than 90% identity to the corresponding subunit in rat. Studies in the knockout mouse deficient in this subunit suggest that this gene may be involved in the development of synaptic elements by modulating NMDA receptor activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GRIN3B: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The encoded protein is found primarily in motor neurons, where it forms a heterotetramer with GRIN1 to create an excitatory glycine receptor. Variations in this gene have been proposed to be linked to schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015]
HTR2A: This gene encodes one of the receptors for serotonin, a neurotransmitter with many roles. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and are also associated with response to the antidepressant citalopram in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). MDD patients who also have a mutation in intron 2 of this gene show a significantly reduced response to citalopram as this antidepressant downregulates expression of this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]
ITPR1: This gene encodes an intracellular receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Upon stimulation by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, this receptor mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, a disease associated with an heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]
NCS1: This gene is a member of the neuronal calcium sensor gene family, which encode calcium-binding proteins expressed predominantly in neurons. The protein encoded by this gene regulates G protein-coupled receptor phosphorylation in a calcium-dependent manner and can substitute for calmodulin. The protein is associated with secretory granules and modulates synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
P2RX4: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel with high calcium permeability. The main pharmacological distinction between the members of the purinoceptor family is the relative sensitivity to the antagonists suramin and PPADS. The product of this gene has the lowest sensitivity for these antagonists. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]
P2RX7: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel and is responsible for ATP-dependent lysis of macrophages through the formation of membrane pores permeable to large molecules. Activation of this nuclear receptor by ATP in the cytoplasm may be a mechanism by which cellular activity can be coupled to changes in gene expression. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified, most of which fit nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) criteria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]
PLCB1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of many extracellular signals. This gene is activated by two G-protein alpha subunits, alpha-q and alpha-11. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PSEN1: Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor, such that they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity or themselves are protease enzymes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, the full-length nature of only some have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]
SLC8A1: In cardiac myocytes, Ca(2+) concentrations alternate between high levels during contraction and low levels during relaxation. The increase in Ca(2+) concentration during contraction is primarily due to release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. However, some Ca(2+) also enters the cell through the sarcolemma (plasma membrane). During relaxation, Ca(2+) is sequestered within the intracellular stores. To prevent overloading of intracellular stores, the Ca(2+) that entered across the sarcolemma must be extruded from the cell. The Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger is the primary mechanism by which the Ca(2+) is extruded from the cell during relaxation. In the heart, the exchanger may play a key role in digitalis action. The exchanger is the dominant mechanism in returning the cardiac myocyte to its resting state following excitation.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]
SLC8A2: Predicted to enable calcium:cation antiporter activity involved in regulation of postsynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration and calcium:sodium antiporter activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including inorganic cation transmembrane transport; learning or memory; and regulation of short-term neuronal synaptic plasticity. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including modulation of chemical synaptic transmission; regulation of action potential firing pattern; and response to ischemia. Part of presynapse. Biomarker of Alzheimer's disease. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SLC8A3: This gene encodes a member of the sodium/calcium exchanger integral membrane protein family. Na+/Ca2+ exchange proteins are involved in maintaining Ca2+ homeostasis in a wide variety of cell types. The protein is regulated by intracellular calcium ions and is found in both the plasma membrane and intracellular organellar membranes, where exchange of Na+ for Ca2+ occurs in an electrogenic manner. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and multiple variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]
TRPV1: Capsaicin, the main pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers, elicits a sensation of burning pain by selectively activating sensory neurons that convey information about noxious stimuli to the central nervous system. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for capsaicin and is a non-selective cation channel that is structurally related to members of the TRP family of ion channels. This receptor is also activated by increases in temperature in the noxious range, suggesting that it functions as a transducer of painful thermal stimuli in vivo. Four transcript variants encoding the same protein, but with different 5' UTR sequence, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
////
APOH: Apolipoprotein H, also known as beta-2-glycoprotein I, is a componentof circulating plasma lipoproteins. It has been implicated in a variety ofphysiologic pathways including lipoprotein metabolism, coagulation, hemostasis,and the production of antiphospholipid autoantibodies. APOH may be a requiredcofactor for anionic phospholipid binding by the antiphospholipid autoantibodiesfound in sera of many patients with lupus and primary antiphospholipid syndrome(APS). The anti-beta (2) glycoprotein I antibodies from APS patients, mediateinhibition of activated protein C which has anticoagulant properties. Becausebeta-2-GPI is the main autoantigen in patients with APS, the disruption ofthis pathway by autoantibodies may be an important mechanism for thrombosisin patients with APS.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2019]
APP: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursorprotein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some ofthese peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complexAPBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the proteinbasis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimerdisease. In addition, two of the peptides are antimicrobial peptides, havingbeen shown to have bacteriocidal and antifungal activities. Mutations in thisgene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterialamyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Multiple transcript variants encodingseveral different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq,Aug 2014]
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns whichcontribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclinforms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6 and functions as a regulatory subunit ofthe complex, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. Thisprotein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylationof tumor suppressor protein Rb. Knockout studies of the homologous gene inmouse suggest the essential roles of this gene in ovarian granulosa and germcell proliferation. High level expression of this gene was observed in ovarianand testicular tumors. Mutations in this gene are associated with megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalussyndrome 3 (MPPH3). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]
COL3A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillarcollagen that is found in extensible connective tissues such as skin, lung,uterus, intestine and the vascular system, frequently in association withtype I collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlossyndrome type IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms. [provided by R.Dalgleish, Feb 2008]
COL5A2: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containingtype I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fiberscomposed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closelyrelated to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains oftypes V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chaincombinations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome,types I and II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CXCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member CXC chemokine family.The encoded protein is a chemotactic for neutrophil granulocytes and has antibacterialaction against gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. This gene and othermembers of the CXC chemokine gene family form a gene cluster in a region ofchromosome 4q. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2020]
FGFR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growthfactor receptor (FGFR) family, where amino acid sequence is highly conservedbetween members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ fromone another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-lengthrepresentative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of threeimmunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segmentand a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of theprotein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascadeof downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.This particular family member binds both acidic and basic fibroblast growthfactors and is involved in limb induction. Mutations in this gene have beenassociated with Pfeiffer syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Antley-Bixler syndrome,osteoglophonic dysplasia, and autosomal dominant Kallmann syndrome 2. Chromosomalaberrations involving this gene are associated with stem cell myeloproliferativedisorder and stem cell leukemia lymphoma syndrome. Alternatively spliced variantswhich encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, notall variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FSTL1: This gene encodes a protein with similarity to follistatin, an activin-bindingprotein. It contains an FS module, a follistatin-like sequence containing10 conserved cysteine residues. This gene product is thought to be an autoantigenassociated with rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ITGAV: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphasubunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light andheavy chains that comprise the alpha V subunit. This subunit associates withbeta 1, beta 3, beta 5, beta 6 and beta 8 subunits. The heterodimer consistingof alpha V and beta 3 subunits is also known as the vitronectin receptor.This integrin may regulate angiogenesis and cancer progression. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript variants. Note that the integrin alpha5 and integrin alpha V subunits are encoded by distinct genes. [provided byRefSeq, Oct 2015]
JAG1: The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophiliajagged protein. Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, thelatter is involved in signaling processes. Mutations that alter the jagged1 protein cause Alagille syndrome. Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 hasalso been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov2019]
JAG2: The Notch signaling pathway is an intercellular signaling mechanismthat is essential for proper embryonic development. Members of the Notch genefamily encode transmembrane receptors that are critical for various cell fatedecisions. The protein encoded by this gene is one of several ligands thatactivate Notch and related receptors. Two transcript variants encoding differentisoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
KCNJ8: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where theyparticipate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encodedby this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassiumchannel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassiumto flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins.Defects in this gene may be a cause of J-wave syndromes and sudden infantdeath syndrome (SIDS). [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
LPL: LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed in heart, muscle,and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodimer, and has the dual functionsof triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediatedlipoprotein uptake. Severe mutations that cause LPL deficiency result in typeI hyperlipoproteinemia, while less extreme mutations in LPL are linked tomany disorders of lipoprotein metabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
LRPAP1: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the low density lipoprotein(LDL) receptor-related protein and facilitates its proper folding and localizationby preventing the binding of ligands. Mutations in this gene have been identifiedin individuals with myopia 23. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcriptvariants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]
LUM: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family that includes decorin, biglycan, fibromodulin, keratocan, epiphycan,and osteoglycin. In these bifunctional molecules, the protein moiety bindscollagen fibrils and the highly charged hydrophilic glycosaminoglycans regulateinterfibrillar spacings. Lumican is the major keratan sulfate proteoglycanof the cornea but is also distributed in interstitial collagenous matricesthroughout the body. Lumican may regulate collagen fibril organization andcircumferential growth, corneal transparency, and epithelial cell migrationand tissue repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MSX1: This gene encodes a member of the muscle segment homeobox gene family.The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor during embryogenesisthrough interactions with components of the core transcription complex andother homeoproteins. It may also have roles in limb-pattern formation, craniofacialdevelopment, particularly odontogenesis, and tumor growth inhibition. Mutationsin this gene, which was once known as homeobox 7, have been associated withnonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate 5, Witkop syndrome, Wolf-Hirschomsyndrome, and autosomoal dominant hypodontia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NRP1: This gene encodes one of two neuropilins, which contain specific proteindomains which allow them to participate in several different types of signalingpathways that control cell migration. Neuropilins contain a large N-terminalextracellular domain, made up of complement-binding, coagulation factor V/VIII,and meprin domains. These proteins also contains a short membrane-spanningdomain and a small cytoplasmic domain. Neuropilins bind many ligands and varioustypes of co-receptors; they affect cell survival, migration, and attraction.Some of the ligands and co-receptors bound by neuropilins are vascular endothelialgrowth factor (VEGF) and semaphorin family members. This protein has alsobeen determined to act as a co-receptor for SARS-CoV-2 (which causes COVID-19)to infect host cells. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2020]
OLR1: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs tothe C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated through the cyclic AMPsignaling pathway. The encoded protein binds, internalizes and degrades oxidizedlow-density lipoprotein. This protein may be involved in the regulation ofFas-induced apoptosis. This protein may play a role as a scavenger receptor.Mutations of this gene have been associated with atherosclerosis, risk ofmyocardial infarction, and may modify the risk of Alzheimer''s disease. Alternatesplicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb2010]
PDGFA: This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of bothplatelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors(VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generateplatelet-derived growth factor subunit A, which can homodimerize, or alternatively,heterodimerize with the related platelet-derived growth factor subunit B.These proteins bind and activate PDGF receptor tyrosine kinases, which playa role in a wide range of developmental processes. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]
PF4: This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokineis released from the alpha granules of activated platelets in the form ofa homotetramer which has high affinity for heparin and is involved in plateletaggregation. This protein is chemotactic for numerous other cell type andalso functions as an inhibitor of hematopoiesis, angiogenesis and T-cell function.The protein also exhibits antimicrobial activity against Plasmodium falciparum.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]
PGLYRP1: Enables peptidoglycan binding activity and peptidoglycan immune receptoractivity. Involved in antimicrobial humoral immune response mediated by antimicrobialpeptide; killing of cells of other organism; and response to bacterium. Locatedin extracellular exosome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
POSTN: This gene encodes a secreted extracellular matrix protein that functionsin tissue development and regeneration, including wound healing, and ventricularremodeling following myocardial infarction. The encoded protein binds to integrinsto support adhesion and migration of epithelial cells. This protein playsa role in cancer stem cell maintenance and metastasis. Mice lacking this geneexhibit cardiac valve disease, and skeletal and dental defects. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]
PRG2: The protein encoded by this gene is the predominant constituent of thecrystalline core of the eosinophil granule. High levels of the proform ofthis protein are also present in placenta and pregnancy serum, where it existsas a complex with several other proteins including pregnancy-associated plasmaprotein A (PAPPA), angiotensinogen (AGT), and C3dg. This protein may be involvedin antiparasitic defense mechanisms as a cytotoxin and helminthotoxin, andin immune hypersensitivity reactions. The encoded protein contains a peptidethat displays potent antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive bacteria,Gram-negative bacteria, and fungi. It is directly implicated in epithelialcell damage, exfoliation, and bronchospasm in allergic diseases. Alternativelyspliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found forthis gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
PTK2: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is foundconcentrated in the focal adhesions that form between cells growing in thepresence of extracellular matrix constituents. The encoded protein is a memberof the FAK subfamily of protein tyrosine kinases but lacks significant sequencesimilarity to kinases from other subfamilies. Activation of this gene maybe an important early step in cell growth and intracellular signal transductionpathways triggered in response to certain neural peptides or to cell interactionswith the extracellular matrix. Several transcript variants encoding differentisoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2017]
S100A4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved inthe regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progressionand differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are locatedas a cluster on chromosome 1q21. This protein may function in motility, invasion,and tubulin polymerization. Chromosomal rearrangements and altered expressionof this gene have been implicated in tumor metastasis. Multiple alternativelyspliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SERPINA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin familyof proteins, a group of proteins that inhibit serine proteases. This geneis one in a cluster of serpin genes located on the q arm of chromosome 14.This family member is a glycoprotein that can inhibit several serine proteases,including protein C and various plasminogen activators and kallikreins, andit thus plays diverse roles in hemostasis and thrombosis in multiple organs.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]
SLCO2A1: This gene encodes a prostaglandin transporter that is a member ofthe 12-membrane-spanning superfamily of transporters. The encoded proteinmay be involved in mediating the uptake and clearance of prostaglandins innumerous tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]
SPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the attachment of osteoclaststo the mineralized bone matrix. The encoded protein is secreted and bindshydroxyapatite with high affinity. The osteoclast vitronectin receptor isfound in the cell membrane and may be involved in the binding to this protein.This protein is also a cytokine that upregulates expression of interferon-gammaand interleukin-12. Several transcript variants encoding different isoformshave been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]
STC1: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The gene contains a 5'' UTR rich in CAG trinucleotide repeats. The encodedprotein contains 11 conserved cysteine residues and is phosphorylated by proteinkinase C exclusively on its serine residues. The protein may play a role inthe regulation of renal and intestinal calcium and phosphate transport, cellmetabolism, or cellular calcium/phosphate homeostasis. Overexpression of humanstanniocalcin 1 in mice produces high serum phosphate levels, dwarfism, andincreased metabolic rate. This gene has altered expression in hepatocellular,ovarian, and breast cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
THBD: The protein encoded by this intronless gene is an endothelial-specifictype I membrane receptor that binds thrombin. This binding results in theactivation of protein C, which degrades clotting factors Va and VIIIa andreduces the amount of thrombin generated. Mutations in this gene are a causeof thromboembolic disease, also known as inherited thrombophilia. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix.In addition to its inhibitory role against most of the known MMPs, the encodedprotein is able to promote cell proliferation in a wide range of cell types,and may also have an anti-apoptotic function. Transcription of this gene ishighly inducible in response to many cytokines and hormones. In addition,the expression from some but not all inactive X chromosomes suggests thatthis gene inactivation is polymorphic in human females. This gene is locatedwithin intron 6 of the synapsin I gene and is transcribed in the oppositedirection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TNFRSF21: This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptorsuperfamily. The encoded protein activates nuclear factor kappa-B and mitogen-activatedprotein kinase 8 (also called c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1), and induces cellapoptosis. Through its death domain, the encoded receptor interacts with tumornecrosis factor receptor type 1-associated death domain (TRADD) protein, whichis known to mediate signal transduction of tumor necrosis factor receptors.Knockout studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a role in T-helper cellactivation, and may be involved in inflammation and immune regulation. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2013]
VAV2: VAV2 is the second member of the VAV guanine nucleotide exchange factorfamily of oncogenes. Unlike VAV1, which is expressed exclusively in hematopoieticcells, VAV2 transcripts were found in most tissues. Alternatively splicedtranscript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]
VCAN: This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family.The protein encoded is a large chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and is a majorcomponent of the extracellular matrix. This protein is involved in cell adhesion,proliferation, proliferation, migration and angiogenesis and plays a centralrole in tissue morphogenesis and maintenance. Mutations in this gene are thecause of Wagner syndrome type 1. Multiple transcript variants encoding differentisoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodesa heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Thisgrowth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelialcells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis.Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vesselformation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expressionis correlated with tumor stage and progression. Elevated levels of this proteinare found in patients with POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome.Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with microvascular complicationsof diabetes 1 (MVCD1) and atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcriptvariants encoding different isoforms have been described. There is also evidencefor alternative translation initiation from upstream non-AUG (CUG) codonsresulting in additional isoforms. A recent study showed that a C-terminallyextended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translationtermination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoformis antiangiogenic. Expression of some isoforms derived from the AUG startcodon is regulated by a small upstream open reading frame, which is locatedwithin an internal ribosome entry site. The levels of VEGF are increased duringinfection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2),thus promoting inflammation by facilitating recruitment of inflammatory cells,and by increasing the level of angiopoietin II (Ang II), one of two productsof the SARS-CoV-2 binding target, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).In turn, Ang II facilitates the elevation of VEGF, thus forming a viciouscycle in the release of inflammatory cytokines. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2020]
VTN: The protein encoded by this gene functions in part as an adhesive glycoprotein.Differential expression of this protein can promote either cell adhesion ormigration as it links cells to the extracellular matrix through a varietyof ligands. These ligands include integrins, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1,and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor. This secreted protein can bepresent in the plasma as a monomer or dimer and forms a multimer in the extracellularmatrix of several tissues. This protein also inhibits the membrane-damagingeffect of the terminal cytolytic complement pathway and binds to several serpinserine protease inhibitors. This protein can also promote extracellular matrixdegradation and thus plays a role in tumorigenesis. It is involved in a varietyof other biological processes such as the regulation of the coagulation pathway,wound healing, and tissue remodeling. The heparin-binding domain of this proteingive it anti-microbial properties. It is also a lipid binding protein thatforms a principal component of high density lipoprotein. [provided by RefSeq,Aug 2020]
////
ACHE: Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholineat neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminatessignal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, whereit constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylcholinesterase exists inmultiple molecular forms which possess similar catalytic properties, but differin their oligomeric assembly and mode of cell attachment to the cell surface.It is encoded by the single ACHE gene, and the structural diversity in thegene products arises from alternative mRNA splicing, and post-translationalassociations of catalytic and structural subunits. The major form of acetylcholinesterasefound in brain, muscle and other tissues is the hydrophilic species, whichforms disulfide-linked oligomers with collagenous, or lipid-containing structuralsubunits. The other, alternatively spliced form, expressed primarily in theerythroid tissues, differs at the C-terminal end, and contains a cleavablehydrophobic peptide with a GPI-anchor site. It associates with the membranesthrough the phosphoinositide (PI) moieties added post-translationally. AChEactivity may constitute a sensitive biomarker of RBC ageing in vivo, and thus,may be of aid in understanding the effects of transfusion[provided by RefSeq,Sep 2019]
ADGRG1: This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor familyand regulates brain cortical patterning. The encoded protein binds specificallyto transglutaminase 2, a component of tissue and tumor stroma implicated asan inhibitor of tumor progression. Mutations in this gene are associated witha brain malformation known as bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb2014]
AMOT: This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteinscharacterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ bindingmotifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cellsof capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediatethe inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration ofendothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new bloodvessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CDK5R1: The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activatorof cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required forproper development of the central nervous system. The p35 form of this proteinis proteolytically cleaved by calpain, generating a p25 form. The cleavageof p35 into p25 results in relocalization of the protein from the cell peripheryto nuclear and perinuclear regions. P25 deregulates CDK5 activity by prolongingits activation and changing its cellular location. The p25 form accumulatesin the brain neurons of patients with Alzheimer''s disease. This accumulationcorrelates with an increase in CDK5 kinase activity, and may lead to aberrantlyphosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau, which contributesto Alzheimer''s disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CDK6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CMGC family of serine/threonineprotein kinases. This kinase is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinasecomplex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition.The activity of this kinase first appears in mid-G1 phase, which is controlledby the regulatory subunits including D-type cyclins and members of INK4 familyof CDK inhibitors. This kinase, as well as CDK4, has been shown to phosphorylate,and thus regulate the activity of, tumor suppressor protein Rb. Altered expressionof this gene has been observed in multiple human cancers. A mutation in thisgene resulting in reduced cell proliferation, and impaired cell motility andpolarity, and has been identified in patients with primary microcephaly. [providedby RefSeq, Aug 2017]
CELSR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the flamingo subfamily,part of the cadherin superfamily. The flamingo subfamily consists of nonclassic-typecadherins; a subpopulation that does not interact with catenins. The flamingocadherins are located at the plasma membrane and have nine cadherin domains,seven epidermal growth factor-like repeats and two laminin A G-type repeatsin their ectodomain. They also have seven transmembrane domains, a characteristicunique to this subfamily. It is postulated that these proteins are receptorsinvolved in contact-mediated communication, with cadherin domains acting ashomophilic binding regions and the EGF-like domains involved in cell adhesionand receptor-ligand interactions. This particular member is a developmentallyregulated, neural-specific gene which plays an unspecified role in early embryogenesis.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CNTFR: This gene encodes a member of the type 1 cytokine receptor family.The encoded protein is the ligand-specific component of a tripartite receptorfor ciliary neurotrophic factor, which plays a critical role in neuronal cellsurvival, differentiation and gene expression. Binding of ciliary neurotrophicfactor to the encoded protein recruits the transmembrane components of thereceptor, gp130 and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor, facilitating signaltransduction. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associatedwith variations in muscle strength, as well as early onset of eating disorders.Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]
CRMP1: This gene encodes a member of a family of cytosolic phosphoproteinsexpressed exclusively in the nervous system. The encoded protein is thoughtto be a part of the semaphorin signal transduction pathway implicated in semaphorin-inducedgrowth cone collapse during neural development. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
DPYSL2: This gene encodes a member of the collapsin response mediator proteinfamily. Collapsin response mediator proteins form homo- and hetero-tetramersand facilitate neuron guidance, growth and polarity. The encoded protein promotesmicrotubule assembly and is required for Sema3A-mediated growth cone collapse,and also plays a role in synaptic signaling through interactions with calciumchannels. This gene has been implicated in multiple neurological disorders,and hyperphosphorylation of the encoded protein may play a key role in thedevelopment of Alzheimer''s disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variantsencoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided byRefSeq, Sep 2011]
ETS2: This gene encodes a transcription factor which regulates genes involvedin development and apoptosis. The encoded protein is also a protooncogeneand shown to be involved in regulation of telomerase. A pseudogene of thisgene is located on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multipletranscript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]
GLI1: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel family of zinc finger proteins.The encoded transcription factor is activated by the sonic hedgehog signaltransduction cascade and regulates stem cell proliferation. The activity andnuclear localization of this protein is negatively regulated by p53 in aninhibitory loop. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoformshave been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]
HEY1: This gene encodes a nuclear protein belonging to the hairy and enhancerof split-related (HESR) family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type transcriptionalrepressors. Expression of this gene is induced by the Notch and c-Jun signaltransduction pathways. Two similar and redundant genes in mouse are requiredfor embryonic cardiovascular development, and are also implicated in neurogenesisand somitogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HEY2: This gene encodes a member of the hairy and enhancer of split-related(HESR) family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type transcription factors.The encoded protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers that localize to the nucleusand interact with a histone deacetylase complex to repress transcription.Expression of this gene is induced by the Notch signal transduction pathway.Two similar and redundant genes in mouse are required for embryonic cardiovasculardevelopment, and are also implicated in neurogenesis and somitogenesis. Alternativelyspliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validityhas not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
L1CAM: The protein encoded by this gene is an axonal glycoprotein belongingto the immunoglobulin supergene family. The ectodomain, consisting of severalimmunoglobulin-like domains and fibronectin-like repeats (type III), is linkedvia a single transmembrane sequence to a conserved cytoplasmic domain. Thiscell adhesion molecule plays an important role in nervous system development,including neuronal migration and differentiation. Mutations in the gene causeX-linked neurological syndromes known as CRASH (corpus callosum hypoplasia,retardation, aphasia, spastic paraplegia and hydrocephalus). Alternative splicingof this gene results in multiple transcript variants, some of which includean alternate exon that is considered to be specific to neurons. [providedby RefSeq, May 2013]
LDB1: Enables LIM domain binding activity; RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-bindingtranscription factor binding activity; and enzyme binding activity. Involvedin negative regulation of transcription, DNA-templated and positive regulationof transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromatin. Part of beta-catenin-TCFcomplex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MYH9: This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein shouldnot be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9B).The encoded protein is a myosin IIA heavy chain that contains an IQ domainand a myosin head-like domain which is involved in several important functions,including cytokinesis, cell motility and maintenance of cell shape. Defectsin this gene have been associated with non-syndromic sensorineural deafnessautosomal dominant type 17, Epstein syndrome, Alport syndrome with macrothrombocytopenia,Sebastian syndrome, Fechtner syndrome and macrothrombocytopenia with progressivesensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]
NF1: This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of theras signal transduction pathway. Mutations in this gene have been linked toneurofibromatosis type 1, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and Watson syndrome.The mRNA for this gene is subject to RNA editing (CGA>UGA->Arg1306Term) resultingin premature translation termination. Alternatively spliced transcript variantsencoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NKX6-1: In the pancreas, NKX6.1 is required for the development of beta cellsand is a potent bifunctional transcription regulator that binds to AT-richsequences within the promoter region of target genes Iype et al. (2004) [PubMed15056733].[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
NRCAM: Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily.This gene encodes a neuronal cell adhesion molecule with multiple immunoglobulin-likeC2-type domains and fibronectin type-III domains. This ankyrin-binding proteinis involved in neuron-neuron adhesion and promotes directional signaling duringaxonal cone growth. This gene is also expressed in non-neural tissues andmay play a general role in cell-cell communication via signaling from itsintracellular domain to the actin cytoskeleton during directional cell migration.Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with autism and addictionvulnerability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variantsencoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NRP1: This gene encodes one of two neuropilins, which contain specific proteindomains which allow them to participate in several different types of signalingpathways that control cell migration. Neuropilins contain a large N-terminalextracellular domain, made up of complement-binding, coagulation factor V/VIII,and meprin domains. These proteins also contains a short membrane-spanningdomain and a small cytoplasmic domain. Neuropilins bind many ligands and varioustypes of co-receptors; they affect cell survival, migration, and attraction.Some of the ligands and co-receptors bound by neuropilins are vascular endothelialgrowth factor (VEGF) and semaphorin family members. This protein has alsobeen determined to act as a co-receptor for SARS-CoV-2 (which causes COVID-19)to infect host cells. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2020]
NRP2: This gene encodes a member of the neuropilin family of receptor proteins.The encoded transmembrane protein binds to SEMA3C protein {sema domain, immunoglobulindomain (Ig), short basic domain, secreted, (semaphorin) 3C} and SEMA3F protein{sema domain, immunoglobulin domain (Ig), short basic domain, secreted, (semaphorin)3F}, and interacts with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This proteinmay play a role in cardiovascular development, axon guidance, and tumorigenesis.This protein has also been determined to act as a co-receptor for SARS-CoV-2(which causes COVID-19) to infect host cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2021]
OPHN1: This gene encodes a Rho-GTPase-activating protein that promotes GTPhydrolysis of Rho subfamily members. Rho proteins are important mediatorsof intracellular signal transduction, which affects cell migration and cellmorphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are responsible for OPHN1-related X-linkedcognitive disability with cerebellar hypoplasia and distinctive facial dysmorhphism.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PLG: The plasminogen protein encoded by this gene is a serine protease thatcirculates in blood plasma as an inactive zymogen and is converted to theactive protease, plasmin, by several plasminogen activators such as tissueplasminogen activator (tPA), urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), kallikrein,and factor XII (Hageman factor). The conversion of plasminogen to plasmininvolves the cleavage of the peptide bond between Arg-561 and Val-562. Plasmincleavage also releases the angiostatin protein which inhibits angiogenesis.Plasmin degrades many blood plasma proteins, including fibrin-containing bloodclots. As a serine protease, plasmin cleaves many products in addition tofibrin such as fibronectin, thrombospondin, laminin, and von Willebrand factor.Plasmin is inactivated by proteins such as alpha-2-macroglobulin and alpha-2-antiplasminin addition to inhibitors of the various plasminogen activators. Plasminogenalso interacts with plasminogen receptors which results in the retention ofplasmin on cell surfaces and in plasmin-induced cell signaling. The localizationof plasminogen on cell surfaces plays a role in the degradation of extracellularmatrices, cell migration, inflamation, wound healing, oncogenesis, metastasis,myogenesis, muscle regeneration, neurite outgrowth, and fibrinolysis. Thisprotein may also play a role in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)which, in part, is caused by enhanced clot formation and the suppression offibrinolysis. Compared to other mammals, the cluster of plasminogen-like genesto which this gene belongs has been rearranged in catarrhine primates. [providedby RefSeq, May 2020]
PML: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. This phosphoproteinlocalizes to nuclear bodies where it functions as a transcription factor andtumor suppressor. Its expression is cell-cycle related and it regulates thep53 response to oncogenic signals. The gene is often involved in the translocationwith the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene associated with acute promyelocyticleukemia (APL). Extensive alternative splicing of this gene results in severalvariations of the protein''s central and C-terminal regions; all variantsencode the same N-terminus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the patched family of proteins and acomponent of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Hedgehog signaling is importantin embryonic development and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein is the receptorfor the secreted hedgehog ligands, which include sonic hedgehog, indian hedgehogand desert hedgehog. Following binding by one of the hedgehog ligands, theencoded protein is trafficked away from the primary cilium, relieving inhibitionof the G-protein-coupled receptor smoothened, which results in activationof downstream signaling. Mutations of this gene have been associated withbasal cell nevus syndrome and holoprosencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Aug2017]
RASA1: The protein encoded by this gene is located in the cytoplasm and ispart of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activating proteins. The gene product stimulatesthe GTPase activity of normal RAS p21 but not its oncogenic counterpart. Actingas a suppressor of RAS function, the protein enhances the weak intrinsic GTPaseactivity of RAS proteins resulting in the inactive GDP-bound form of RAS,thereby allowing control of cellular proliferation and differentiation. Mutationsleading to changes in the binding sites of either protein are associated withbasal cell carcinomas. Mutations also have been associated with hereditarycapillary malformations (CM) with or without arteriovenous malformations (AVM)and Parkes Weber syndrome. Alternative splicing results in two isoforms wherethe shorter isoform, lacking the N-terminal hydrophobic region but retainingthe same activity, appears to be abundantly expressed in placental but notadult tissues. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
RTN1: This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulonsare associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, and are involved in neuroendocrinesecretion or in membrane trafficking in neuroendocrine cells. This gene isconsidered to be a specific marker for neurological diseases and cancer, andis a potential molecular target for therapy. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]
SCG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretograninfamily of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. Studies in rodents suggest thatthe full-length protein, secretogranin II, is involved in the packaging orsorting of peptide hormones and neuropeptides into secretory vesicles. Thefull-length protein is cleaved to produce the active peptide secretoneurin,which exerts chemotaxic effects on specific cell types, and EM66, whose functionis unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SHH: This gene encodes a protein that is instrumental in patterning the earlyembryo. It has been implicated as the key inductive signal in patterning ofthe ventral neural tube, the anterior-posterior limb axis, and the ventralsomites. Of three human proteins showing sequence and functional similarityto the sonic hedgehog protein of Drosophila, this protein is the most similar.The protein is made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; theN-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while theC-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly,the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminalproduct, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventingit from freely diffusing throughout the developing embryo. Defects in thisprotein or in its signalling pathway are a cause of holoprosencephaly (HPE),a disorder in which the developing forebrain fails to correctly separate intoright and left hemispheres. HPE is manifested by facial deformities. It isalso thought that mutations in this gene or in its signalling pathway maybe responsible for VACTERL syndrome, which is characterized by vertebral defects,anal atresia, tracheoesophageal fistula with esophageal atresia, radial andrenal dysplasia, cardiac anomalies, and limb abnormalities. Additionally,mutations in a long range enhancer located approximately 1 megabase upstreamof this gene disrupt limb patterning and can result in preaxial polydactyly.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SLIT1: Enables Roundabout binding activity. Involved in axon extension involvedin axon guidance; motor neuron axon guidance; and negative chemotaxis. Predictedto be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be active in extracellularspace. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
THY1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein and member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily of proteins. The encoded protein is involved in cell adhesionand cell communication in numerous cell types, but particularly in cells ofthe immune and nervous systems. The encoded protein is widely used as a markerfor hematopoietic stem cells. This gene may function as a tumor suppressorin nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcriptvariants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015]
TLE1: Enables identical protein binding activity and transcription corepressoractivity. Involved in negative regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling;negative regulation of anoikis; and regulation of gene expression. Locatedin cytosol and nucleoplasm. Part of beta-catenin-TCF complex. [provided byAlliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
TLE3: This gene encodes a transcriptional co-repressor protein that belongsto the transducin-like enhancer family of proteins. The members of this familyfunction in the Notch signaling pathway that regulates determination of cellfate during development. Expression of this gene has been associated witha favorable outcome to chemotherapy with taxanes for ovarian carcinoma. Alternatesplicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternativelyspliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-lengthnature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]
UNC5C: This gene product belongs to the UNC-5 family of netrin receptors.Netrins are secreted proteins that direct axon extension and cell migrationduring neural development. They are bifunctional proteins that act as attractantsfor some cell types and as repellents for others, and these opposite actionsare thought to be mediated by two classes of receptors. The UNC-5 family ofreceptors mediate the repellent response to netrin; they are transmembraneproteins containing 2 immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains and 2 type I thrombospondinmotifs in the extracellular region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodesa heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Thisgrowth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelialcells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis.Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vesselformation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expressionis correlated with tumor stage and progression. Elevated levels of this proteinare found in patients with POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome.Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with microvascular complicationsof diabetes 1 (MVCD1) and atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcriptvariants encoding different isoforms have been described. There is also evidencefor alternative translation initiation from upstream non-AUG (CUG) codonsresulting in additional isoforms. A recent study showed that a C-terminallyextended isoform is produced by use of an alternative in-frame translationtermination codon via a stop codon readthrough mechanism, and that this isoformis antiangiogenic. Expression of some isoforms derived from the AUG startcodon is regulated by a small upstream open reading frame, which is locatedwithin an internal ribosome entry site. The levels of VEGF are increased duringinfection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2),thus promoting inflammation by facilitating recruitment of inflammatory cells,and by increasing the level of angiopoietin II (Ang II), one of two productsof the SARS-CoV-2 binding target, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).In turn, Ang II facilitates the elevation of VEGF, thus forming a viciouscycle in the release of inflammatory cytokines. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2020]
VLDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specificligands. This gene encodes a lipoprotein receptor that is a member of theLDLR family and plays important roles in VLDL-triglyceride metabolism andthe reelin signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene cause VLDLR-associatedcerebellar hypoplasia. Alternative splicing generates multiple transcriptvariants encoding distinct isoforms for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug2009]
////
ABCC8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a modulator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels and insulin release. Mutations in the ABCC8 gene and deficiencies in the encoded protein have been observed in patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy, an autosomal recessive disorder of unregulated and high insulin secretion. Mutations have also been associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, an autosomal dominant disease of defective insulin secretion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2020]
AKT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AKT, also called PKB,  serine/threonine protein kinase family. AKT kinases are known to be regulators of cell signaling in response to insulin and growth factors. They are involved in a wide variety of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tumorigenesis, as well as glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake. This kinase has been shown to be stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1). Alternatively splice transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CHGA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin family of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. It is found in secretory vesicles of neurons and endocrine cells. This gene product is a precursor to three biologically active peptides; vasostatin, pancreastatin, and parastatin. These peptides act as autocrine or paracrine negative modulators of the neuroendocrine system. Two other peptides, catestatin and chromofungin, have antimicrobial activity and antifungal activity, respectively. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]
DCX: This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein and contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules. In the developing cortex, cortical neurons must migrate over long distances to reach the site of their final differentiation. The encoded protein appears to direct neuronal migration by regulating the organization and stability of microtubules. In addition, the encoded protein interacts with LIS1, the regulatory gamma subunit of platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase, and this interaction is important to proper microtubule function in the developing cortex. Mutations in this gene cause abnormal migration of neurons during development and disrupt the layering of the cortex, leading to epilepsy, cognitive disability, subcortical band heterotopia ("double cortex" syndrome) in females and lissencephaly ("smooth brain" syndrome) in males. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]
DPP4: The DPP4 gene encodes dipeptidyl peptidase 4, which is identical to adenosine deaminase complexing protein-2, and to the T-cell activation antigen CD26. It is an intrinsic type II transmembrane glycoprotein and a serine exopeptidase that cleaves X-proline dipeptides from the N-terminus of polypeptides. Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 is highly involved in glucose and insulin metabolism, as well as in immune regulation. This protein was shown to be a functional receptor for Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), and protein modeling suggests that it may play a similar role with SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for COVID-19. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2020]
ELP4: This gene encodes a component of the six subunit elongator complex, a histone acetyltransferase complex that associates directly with RNA polymerase II during transcriptional elongation. The human gene can partially complement sensitivity phenotypes of yeast ELP4 deletion mutants. This gene has also been associated with Rolandic epilepsy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]
FOXA2: This gene encodes a member of the forkhead class of DNA-binding proteins. These hepatocyte nuclear factors are transcriptional activators for liver-specific genes such as albumin and transthyretin, and they also interact with chromatin. Similar family members in mice have roles in the regulation of metabolism and in the differentiation of the pancreas and liver. This gene has been linked to sporadic cases of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
FOXO1: This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it may play a role in myogenic growth and differentiation. Translocation of this gene with PAX3 has been associated with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
G6PC2: This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit family. These enzymes are part of a multicomponent integral membrane system that catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucose-6-phosphate, the terminal step in gluconeogenic and glycogenolytic pathways, allowing the release of glucose into the bloodstream. The family member encoded by this gene is found in pancreatic islets and does not exhibit phosphohydrolase activity, but it is a major target of cell-mediated autoimmunity in diabetes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GCG: The protein encoded by this gene is actually a preproprotein that is cleaved into four distinct mature peptides. One of these, glucagon, is a pancreatic hormone that counteracts the glucose-lowering action of insulin by stimulating glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Glucagon is a ligand for a specific G-protein linked receptor whose signalling pathway controls cell proliferation. Two of the other peptides are secreted from gut endocrine cells and promote nutrient absorption through distinct mechanisms. Finally, the fourth peptide is similar to glicentin, an active enteroglucagon. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GCK: This gene encodes a member of the hexokinase family of proteins. Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. In contrast to other forms of hexokinase, this enzyme is not inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate but remains active while glucose is abundant. The use of multiple promoters and alternative splicing of this gene result in distinct protein isoforms that exhibit tissue-specific expression in the pancreas and liver. In the pancreas, this enzyme plays a role in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, while in the liver, this enzyme is important in glucose uptake and conversion to glycogen. Mutations in this gene that alter enzyme activity have been associated with multiple types of diabetes and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
HNF1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor required for the expression of several liver-specific genes. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and binds to the inverted palindrome 5'-GTTAATNATTAAC-3'. Defects in this gene are a cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young type 3 (MODY3) and also can result in the appearance of hepatic adenomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]
IAPP: This gene encodes a member of the calcitonin family of peptide hormones. This hormone is released from pancreatic beta cells following food intake to regulate blood glucose levels and act as a satiation signal. Human patients with type 1 and advanced type 2 diabetes exhibit reduced levels of the encoded hormone in blood and pancreas. This protein also exhibits a bactericidal, antimicrobial activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]
INS: This gene encodes insulin, a peptide hormone that plays a vital role in the regulation of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. After removal of the precursor signal peptide, proinsulin is post-translationally cleaved into three peptides: the B chain and A chain peptides, which are covalently linked via two disulfide bonds to form insulin, and C-peptide. Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (INSR) stimulates glucose uptake. A multitude of mutant alleles with phenotypic effects have been identified, including insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, permanent neonatal diabetes diabetes mellitus, maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 10 and hyperproinsulinemia. There is a read-through gene, INS-IGF2, which overlaps with this gene at the 5' region and with the IGF2 gene at the 3' region. [provided by RefSeq, May 2020]
INSM1: Insulinoma-associated 1 (INSM1) gene is intronless and encodes a protein containing both a zinc finger DNA-binding domain and a putative prohormone domain. This gene is a sensitive marker for neuroendocrine differentiation of human lung tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ISL1: This gene encodes a member of the LIM/homeodomain family of transcription factors. The encoded protein binds to the enhancer region of the insulin gene, among others, and may play an important role in regulating insulin gene expression. The encoded protein is central to the development of pancreatic cell lineages and may also be required for motor neuron generation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
LMO2: LMO2 encodes a cysteine-rich, two LIM-domain protein that is required for yolk sac erythropoiesis. The LMO2 protein has a central and crucial role in hematopoietic development and is highly conserved. The LMO2 transcription start site is located approximately 25 kb downstream from the 11p13 T-cell translocation cluster (11p13 ttc), where a number T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia-specific translocations occur. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]
MAFB: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor that plays an important role in the regulation of lineage-specific hematopoiesis. The encoded nuclear protein represses ETS1-mediated transcription of erythroid-specific genes in myeloid cells. This gene contains no introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NEUROD1: This gene encodes a member of the NeuroD family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors. The protein forms heterodimers with other bHLH proteins and activates transcription of genes that contain a specific DNA sequence known as the E-box. It regulates expression of the insulin gene, and mutations in this gene result in type II diabetes mellitus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NEUROG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor involved in neurogenesis. The encoded protein likely acts as a heterodimer with another bHLH protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of congenital malabsorptive diarrhea 4 (DIAR4).[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]
NKX2-2: The protein encoded by this gene contains a homeobox domain and may be involved in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system. This gene is found on chromosome 20 near NKX2-4, and these two genes appear to be duplicated on chromosome 14 in the form of TITF1 and NKX2-8. The encoded protein is likely to be a nuclear transcription factor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NKX6-1: In the pancreas, NKX6.1 is required for the development of beta cells and is a potent bifunctional transcription regulator that binds to AT-rich sequences within the promoter region of target genes Iype et al. (2004) [PubMed 15056733].[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
PAK3: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase and forms an activated complex with GTP-bound RAS-like (P21), CDC2 and RAC1. This protein may be necessary for dendritic development and for the rapid cytoskeletal reorganization in dendritic spines associated with synaptic plasticity. Defects in this gene are the cause of a non-syndromic form of X-linked intellectual disability. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017]
PAX4: This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. These genes play critical roles during fetal development and cancer growth. The paired box 4 gene is involved in pancreatic islet development and mouse studies have demonstrated a role for this gene in differentiation of insulin-producing beta cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PAX6: This gene encodes paired box protein Pax-6, one of many human homologs of the Drosophila melanogaster gene prd. In addition to a conserved paired box domain, a hallmark feature of this gene family, the encoded protein also contains a homeobox domain. Both domains are known to bind DNA and function as regulators of gene transcription. Activity of this protein is key in the development of neural tissues, particularly the eye. This gene is regulated by multiple enhancers located up to hundreds of kilobases distant from this locus. Mutations in this gene or in the enhancer regions can cause ocular disorders such as aniridia and Peter's anomaly. Use of alternate promoters and alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Interestingly, inclusion of a particular alternate coding exon has been shown to increase the length of the paired box domain and alter its DNA binding specificity. Consequently, isoforms that carry the shorter paired box domain regulate a different set of genes compared to the isoforms carrying the longer paired box domain. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2019]
PCSK1: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to subcellular compartments where a second autocatalytic even takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. The protease is packaged into and activated in dense core secretory granules and expressed in the neuroendocrine system and brain. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It functions in the proteolytic activation of polypeptide hormones and neuropeptides precursors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to obesity and proprotein convertase 1/3 deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]
PCSK2: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event and interacts with a neuroendocrine secretory protein in the ER, exits the ER and sorts to secretory granules, where it is cleaved and catalytically activated during intracellular transport. The encoded protease is packaged into and activated in dense core secretory granules and expressed in the neuroendocrine system and brain. This gene encodes one of the seven basic amino acid-specific members which cleave their substrates at single or paired basic residues. It functions in the proteolytic activation of polypeptide hormones and neuropeptides precursors. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may increase susceptibility to myocardial infarction and type 2 diabetes. This gene may also play a role in tumor development and progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]
PDX1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator of several genes, including insulin, somatostatin, glucokinase, islet amyloid polypeptide, and glucose transporter type 2. The encoded nuclear protein is involved in the early development of the pancreas and plays a major role in glucose-dependent regulation of insulin gene expression. Defects in this gene are a cause of pancreatic agenesis, which can lead to early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), as well as maturity onset diabetes of the young type 4 (MODY4). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
PKLR: The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate and ATP, which is the rate-limiting step of glycolysis. Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SCGN: The encoded protein is a secreted calcium-binding protein which is found in the cytoplasm. It is related to calbindin D-28K and calretinin. This protein is thought to be involved in KCL-stimulated calcium flux and cell proliferation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SEC11A: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S26B family. The encoded protein is an 18kDa subunit of the signal peptidase complex and has been linked to cell migration and invasion, gastric cancer and lymph node metastasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]
SLC2A2: This gene encodes an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein of the liver, islet beta cells, intestine, and kidney epithelium. The encoded protein mediates facilitated bidirectional glucose transport. Because of its low affinity for glucose, it has been suggested as a glucose sensor. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to diseases, including Fanconi-Bickel syndrome and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
SPCS1: Predicted to enable peptidase activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in viral protein processing and virion assembly. Is integral component of endoplasmic reticulum membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SRP14: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in protein targeting to ER. Located in nucleus. Part of signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulum targeting. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SRP9: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity and signal recognition particle binding activity. Predicted to be involved in SRP-dependent cotranslational protein targeting to membrane. Predicted to be located in cytosol. Predicted to be part of signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulum targeting. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SRPRB: The protein encoded by this gene has similarity to mouse protein which is a subunit of the signal recognition particle receptor (SR). This subunit is a transmembrane GTPase belonging to the GTPase superfamily. It anchors alpha subunit, a peripheral membrane GTPase, to the ER membrane. SR is required for the cotranslational targeting of both secretory and membrane proteins to the ER membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SST: The hormone somatostatin has active 14 aa and 28 aa forms that are produced by alternate cleavage of the single preproprotein encoded by this gene. Somatostatin is expressed throughout the body and inhibits the release of numerous secondary hormones by binding to high-affinity G-protein-coupled somatostatin receptors. This hormone is an important regulator of the endocrine system through its interactions with pituitary growth hormone, thyroid stimulating hormone, and most hormones of the gastrointestinal tract. Somatostatin also affects rates of neurotransmission in the central nervous system and proliferation of both normal and tumorigenic cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
STXBP1: This gene encodes a syntaxin-binding protein. The encoded protein appears to play a role in release of neurotransmitters via regulation of syntaxin, a transmembrane attachment protein receptor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with infantile epileptic encephalopathy-4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]
SYT13: This gene encodes a member of the large synaptotagmin protein family. Family members have an extracellular N-terminal transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic C terminus with two tandem C2 domains (C2A and C2B). Synaptotogmin family members can form homo- and heteromeric complexes with each other. They also have different biochemical properties and developmental profiles, and patterns of tissue distribution. Synaptotagmins function as membrane traffickers in multicellular organisms. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]
VDR: This gene encodes vitamin D3 receptor, which is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-inducible transcription factors. This receptor also functions as a receptor for the secondary bile acid, lithocholic acid. Downstream targets of vitamin D3 receptor are principally involved in mineral metabolism, though this receptor regulates a variety of other metabolic pathways, such as those involved in immune response and cancer. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II vitamin D-resistant rickets. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the initiation codon results in an alternate translation start site three codons downstream. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. A recent study provided evidence for translational readthrough in this gene, and expression of an additional C-terminally extended isoform via the use of an alternative in-frame translation termination codon. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2018]
////
ADAM17: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biologic processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protease. The encoded protease functions in the ectodomain shedding of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, in which soluble tumor necrosis factor-alpha is released from the membrane-bound precursor. This protease also functions in the processing of numerous other substrates, including cell adhesion proteins, cytokine and growth factor receptors and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor ligands, and plays a prominent role in the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in specific cell types derived from psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease patients, suggesting that the encoded protein may play a role in autoimmune disease. Additionally, this protease may play a role in viral infection through its cleavage of ACE2, the cellular receptor for SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2020]
AXIN1: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which contains a regulation of G-protein signaling (RGS) domain and a dishevelled and axin (DIX) domain. The encoded protein interacts with adenomatosis polyposis coli, catenin beta-1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, protein phosphate 2, and itself. This protein functions as a negative regulator of the wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 1 (WNT) signaling pathway and can induce apoptosis. The crystal structure of a portion of this protein, alone and in a complex with other proteins, has been resolved. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatoblastomas, ovarian endometriod adenocarcinomas, and medullablastomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
AXIN2: The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil. In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin. Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies. The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6 and functions as a regulatory subunit of the complex, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylation of tumor suppressor protein Rb. Knockout studies of the homologous gene in mouse suggest the essential roles of this gene in ovarian granulosa and germ cell proliferation. High level expression of this gene was observed in ovarian and testicular tumors. Mutations in this gene are associated with megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome 3 (MPPH3). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]
CSNK1E: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase and a member of the casein kinase I protein family, whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as a monomer and can phosphorylate a variety of proteins, including itself. This protein has been shown to phosphorylate period, a circadian rhythm protein. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]
CTNNB1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
CUL1: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolic process and protein ubiquitination. Located in plasma membrane. Part of Parkin-FBXW7-Cul1 ubiquitin ligase complex and SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
DKK1: This gene encodes a member of the dickkopf family of proteins. Members of this family are secreted proteins characterized by two cysteine-rich domains that mediate protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein binds to the LRP6 co-receptor and inhibits beta-catenin-dependent Wnt signaling. This gene plays a role in embryonic development and may be important in bone formation in adults. Elevated expression of this gene has been observed in numerous human cancers and this protein may promote proliferation, invasion and growth in cancer cell lines. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2017]
DKK4: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. The secreted protein contains two cysteine rich regions and is involved in embryonic development through its interactions with the Wnt signaling pathway. Activity of this protein is modulated by binding to the Wnt co-receptor and the co-factor kremen 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
DLL1: DLL1 is a human homolog of the Notch Delta ligand and is a member of the delta/serrate/jagged family.  It plays a role in mediating cell fate decisions during hematopoiesis. It may play a role in cell-to-cell communication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
DVL2: This gene encodes a member of the dishevelled (dsh) protein family. The vertebrate dsh proteins have approximately 40% amino acid sequence similarity with Drosophila dsh. This gene encodes a 90-kD protein that undergoes posttranslational phosphorylation to form a 95-kD cytoplasmic protein, which may play a role in the signal transduction pathway mediated by multiple Wnt proteins. The mechanisms of dishevelled function in Wnt signaling are likely to be conserved among metazoans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FRAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the GSK-3-binding protein family. The protein inhibits GSK-3-mediated phosphorylation of beta-catenin and positively regulates the Wnt signaling pathway. It may function in tumor progression and in lymphomagenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]
FZD1: Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD1 protein contains a signal peptide, a cysteine-rich domain in the N-terminal extracellular region, 7 transmembrane domains, and a C-terminal PDZ domain-binding motif.  The FZD1 transcript is expressed in various tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FZD8: This intronless gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. This gene is highly expressed in two human cancer cell lines, indicating that it may play a role in several types of cancer. The crystal structure of the extracellular cysteine-rich domain of a similar mouse protein has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GNAI1: Guanine nucleotide binding proteins are heterotrimeric signal-transducing molecules consisting of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The alpha subunit binds guanine nucleotide, can hydrolyze GTP, and can interact with other proteins. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of an inhibitory complex. The encoded protein is part of a complex that responds to beta-adrenergic signals by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]
HDAC11: This gene encodes a class IV histone deacetylase. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus and may be involved in regulating the expression of interleukin 10. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]
HDAC2: This gene product belongs to the histone deacetylase family. Histone deacetylases act via the formation of large multiprotein complexes, and are responsible for the deacetylation of lysine residues at the N-terminal regions of core histones (H2A, H2B, H3 and H4). This protein forms transcriptional repressor complexes by associating with many different proteins, including YY1, a mammalian zinc-finger transcription factor. Thus, it plays an important role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression and developmental events. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]
HDAC5: Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class II histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. It coimmunoprecipitates only with HDAC3 family member and might form multicomplex proteins. It also interacts with myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) proteins, resulting in repression of MEF2-dependent genes. This gene is thought to be associated with colon cancer. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HEY1: This gene encodes a nuclear protein belonging to the hairy and enhancer of split-related (HESR) family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type transcriptional repressors. Expression of this gene is induced by the Notch and c-Jun signal transduction pathways. Two similar and redundant genes in mouse are required for embryonic cardiovascular development, and are also implicated in neurogenesis and somitogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HEY2: This gene encodes a member of the hairy and enhancer of split-related (HESR) family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type transcription factors. The encoded protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers that localize to the nucleus and interact with a histone deacetylase complex to repress transcription. Expression of this gene is induced by the Notch signal transduction pathway. Two similar and redundant genes in mouse are required for embryonic cardiovascular development, and are also implicated in neurogenesis and somitogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
JAG1: The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein. Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, the latter is involved in signaling processes. Mutations that alter the jagged 1 protein cause Alagille syndrome. Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 has also been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2019]
JAG2: The Notch signaling pathway is an intercellular signaling mechanism that is essential for proper embryonic development. Members of the Notch gene family encode transmembrane receptors that are critical for various cell fate decisions. The protein encoded by this gene is one of several ligands that activate Notch and related receptors. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
KAT2A: KAT2A, or GCN5, is a histone acetyltransferase (HAT) that functions primarily as a transcriptional activator. It also functions as a repressor of NF-kappa-B (see MIM 164011) by promoting ubiquitination of the NF-kappa-B subunit RELA (MIM 164014) in a HAT-independent manner (Mao et al., 2009 [PubMed 19339690]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2009]
LEF1: This gene encodes a transcription factor belonging to a family of proteins that share homology with the high mobility group protein-1. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to a functionally important site in the T-cell receptor-alpha enhancer, thereby conferring maximal enhancer activity. This transcription factor is involved in the Wnt signaling pathway, and it may function in hair cell differentiation and follicle morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been found in somatic sebaceous tumors. This gene has also been linked to other cancers, including androgen-independent prostate cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
MAML1: This protein is the human homolog of mastermind, a Drosophila protein that plays a role in the Notch signaling pathway involved in cell-fate determination. There is in vitro evidence that the human homolog forms a complex with the intracellular portion of human Notch receptors and can increase expression of a Notch-induced gene. This evidence supports its proposed function as a transcriptional co-activator in the Notch signaling pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the related transcription factor MAX. This complex binds to the E box DNA consensus sequence and regulates the transcription of specific target genes. Amplification of this gene is frequently observed in numerous human cancers. Translocations involving this gene are associated with Burkitt lymphoma and multiple myeloma in human patients. There is evidence to show that translation initiates both from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site, resulting in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
NCOR2: This gene encodes a nuclear receptor co-repressor that mediates transcriptional silencing of certain target genes. The encoded protein is a member of a family of thyroid hormone- and retinoic acid receptor-associated co-repressors. This protein acts as part of a multisubunit complex which includes histone deacetylases to modify chromatin structure that prevents basal transcriptional activity of target genes. Aberrant expression of this gene is associated with certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]
NCSTN: This gene encodes a type I transmembrane glycoprotein that is an integral component of the multimeric gamma-secretase complex. The encoded protein cleaves integral membrane proteins, including Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein, and may be a stabilizing cofactor required for gamma-secretase complex assembly. The cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein yields amyloid beta peptide, the main component of the neuritic plaque and the hallmark lesion in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease; however, the nature of the encoded protein's role in Alzheimer's disease is not known for certain. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial acne inversa. A pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]
NKD1: In the mouse, Nkd is a Dishevelled (see DVL1; MIM 601365)-binding protein that functions as a negative regulator of the Wnt (see WNT1; MIM 164820)-beta-catenin (see MIM 116806)-Tcf (see MIM 602272) signaling pathway.[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2003]
NOTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types. Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor. This receptor plays a role in the development of numerous cell and tissue types. Mutations in this gene are associated with aortic valve disease, Adams-Oliver syndrome, T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
NOTCH4: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types. Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor. This receptor may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. Mutations in this gene may be associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]
NUMB: The protein encoded by this gene plays a role in the determination of cell fates during development. The encoded protein, whose degradation is induced in a proteasome-dependent manner by MDM2, is a membrane-bound protein that has been shown to associate with EPS15, LNX1, and NOTCH1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]
PPARD: This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) family. The encoded protein is thought to function as an integrator of transcriptional repression and nuclear receptor signaling. It may inhibit the ligand-induced transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator activated receptors alpha and gamma, though evidence for this effect is inconsistent. Expression of this gene in colorectal cancer cells may be variable but is typically relatively low. Knockout studies in mice suggested a role for this protein in myelination of the corpus callosum, lipid metabolism, differentiation, and epidermal cell proliferation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
PSEN2: Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor such that, they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity, or themselves act are protease enzymes. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of PSEN2 have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the patched family of proteins and a component of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Hedgehog signaling is important in embryonic development and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein is the receptor for the secreted hedgehog ligands, which include sonic hedgehog, indian hedgehog and desert hedgehog. Following binding by one of the hedgehog ligands, the encoded protein is trafficked away from the primary cilium, relieving inhibition of the G-protein-coupled receptor smoothened, which results in activation of downstream signaling. Mutations of this gene have been associated with basal cell nevus syndrome and holoprosencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
RBPJ: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator important in the Notch signaling pathway. The encoded protein acts as a repressor when not bound to Notch proteins and an activator when bound to Notch proteins. It is thought to function by recruiting chromatin remodeling complexes containing histone deacetylase or histone acetylase proteins to Notch signaling pathway genes. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and several pseudogenes of this gene exist on chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]
SKP2: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbls class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains 10 tandem leucine-rich repeats. This protein is an essential element of the cyclin A-CDK2 S-phase kinase. It specifically recognizes phosphorylated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (CDKN1B, also referred to as p27 or KIP1) predominantly in S phase and interacts with S-phase kinase-associated protein 1 (SKP1 or p19). In addition, this gene is established as a protooncogene causally involved in the pathogenesis of lymphomas. Alternative splicing of this gene generates three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]
TCF7: This gene encodes a member of the T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer-binding factor family of high mobility group (HMG) box transcriptional activators. This gene is expressed predominantly in T-cells and plays a critical role in natural killer cell and innate lymphoid cell development. The encoded protein forms a complex with beta-catenin and activates transcription through a Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Mice with a knockout of this gene are viable and fertile, but display a block in T-lymphocyte differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally-occurring isoforms lacking the N-terminal beta-catenin interaction domain may act as dominant negative regulators of Wnt signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]
TP53: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternate promoters result in multiple transcript variants and isoforms. Additional isoforms have also been shown to result from the use of alternate translation initiation codons from identical transcript variants (PMIDs: 12032546, 20937277). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016]
WNT1: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It is very conserved in evolution, and the protein encoded by this gene is known to be 98% identical to the mouse Wnt1 protein at the amino acid level. The studies in mouse indicate that the Wnt1 protein functions in the induction of the mesencephalon and cerebellum. This gene was originally considered as a candidate gene for Joubert syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder with cerebellar hypoplasia as a leading feature. However,  further studies suggested that the gene mutations might not have a significant role in Joubert syndrome. This gene is clustered with another family member, WNT10B, in the chromosome 12q13 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
WNT5B: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It encodes a protein which shows 94% and 80% amino acid identity to the mouse Wnt5b protein and the human WNT5A protein, respectively. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
WNT6: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It is overexpressed in cervical cancer cell line and strongly coexpressed with another family member, WNT10A, in colorectal cancer cell line. The gene overexpression may play key roles in carcinogenesis. This gene and the WNT10A gene are clustered in the chromosome 2q35 region. The protein encoded by this gene is 97% identical to the mouse Wnt6 protein at the amino acid level. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
////
ADAM10: Members of the ADAM family are cell surface proteins with a uniquestructure possessing both potential adhesion and protease domains. This geneencodes and ADAM family member that cleaves many proteins including TNF-alphaand E-cadherin. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variantsencoding different proteins that may undergo similar processing. [providedby RefSeq, Feb 2016]
ADIPOR2: The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serveas receptors for globular and full-length adiponectin (MIM 605441) and mediateincreased AMPK (see MIM 602739) and PPAR-alpha (PPARA; MIM 170998) ligandactivities, as well as fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake by adiponectin(Yamauchi et al., 2003 [PubMed 12802337]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
AFAP1L2: Enables SH2 domain binding activity; SH3 domain binding activity;and protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. Involved in several processes,including positive regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signalingpathway; regulation of gene expression; and regulation of mitotic cell cycle.Located in cytosol and plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources,Apr 2022]
AKAP7: This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)family, a group of functionally related proteins that bind to a regulatorysubunit (RII) of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and target the enzymeto specific subcellular compartments. AKAPs have a common RII-binding domain,but contain different targeting motifs responsible for directing PKA to distinctintracellular locations. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encodingdifferent isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]
APP: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursorprotein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some ofthese peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complexAPBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the proteinbasis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimerdisease. In addition, two of the peptides are antimicrobial peptides, havingbeen shown to have bacteriocidal and antifungal activities. Mutations in thisgene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterialamyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Multiple transcript variants encodingseveral different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq,Aug 2014]
ATP6V0A4: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunitenzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryoticcells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intracellularprocesses as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis,and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of acytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consistsof three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and Hsubunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consistsof five different subunits: a, c, c'', c'''', and d. This gene is one of fourgenes in man and mouse that encode different isoforms of the a subunit. Alternativelyspliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.Mutations in this gene are associated with renal tubular acidosis associatedwith preserved hearing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ATP8B1: This gene encodes a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family,which belongs to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases.The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolaminefrom one side of a bilayer to another. Mutations in this gene may result inprogressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 and in benign recurrentintrahepatic cholestasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
B4GALT1: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, andXyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of differentglycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, theyhave an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein tothe Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembraneanchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, andbeta4GalT7. This gene is unique among the beta4GalT genes because it encodesan enzyme that participates both in glycoconjugate and lactose biosynthesis.For the first activity, the enzyme adds galactose to N-acetylglucosamine residuesthat are either monosaccharides or the nonreducing ends of glycoprotein carbohydratechains. The second activity is restricted to lactating mammary tissues wherethe enzyme forms a heterodimer with alpha-lactalbumin to catalyze UDP-galactose+ D-glucose <=> UDP + lactose. The two enzymatic forms result from alternatetranscription initiation sites and post-translational processing. Two transcripts,which differ only at the 5'' end, with approximate lengths of 4.1 kb and 3.9kb encode the same protein. The longer transcript encodes the type II membrane-bound,trans-Golgi resident protein involved in glycoconjugate biosynthesis. Theshorter transcript encodes a protein which is cleaved to form the solublelactose synthase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BRCA1: This gene encodes a 190 kD nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a rolein maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor.The BRCA1 gene contains 22 exons spanning about 110 kb of DNA. The encodedprotein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signaltransducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associatedgenome surveillance complex (BASC). This gene product associates with RNApolymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histonedeacetylase complexes. This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNArepair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination. Mutations in this geneare responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and morethan 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers. Alternative splicing playsa role in modulating the subcellular localization and physiological functionof this gene. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of whichare disease-associated mutations, have been described for this gene, but thefull-length natures of only some of these variants has been described. A relatedpseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 17, has been identified. [providedby RefSeq, May 2020]
CD160: CD160 is an 27 kDa glycoprotein which was initially identified withthe monoclonal antibody BY55. Its expression is tightly associated with peripheralblood NK cells and CD8 T lymphocytes with cytolytic effector activity. ThecDNA sequence of CD160 predicts a cysteine-rich, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchoredprotein of 181 amino acids with a single Ig-like domain weakly homologousto KIR2DL4 molecule. CD160 is expressed at the cell surface as a tightly disulfide-linkedmultimer. RNA blot analysis revealed CD160 mRNAs of 1.5 and 1.6 kb whose expressionwas highly restricted to circulating NK and T cells, spleen and small intestine.Within NK cells CD160 is expressed by CD56dimCD16+ cells whereas among circulatingT cells its expression is mainly restricted to TCRgd bearing cells and toTCRab+CD8brightCD95+CD56+CD28-CD27-cells. In tissues, CD160 is expressed onall intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes. CD160 shows a broad specificityfor binding to both classical and nonclassical MHC class I molecules. [providedby RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CROCC: Predicted to enable kinesin binding activity and structural moleculeactivity. Involved in several processes, including centriole-centriole cohesion;positive regulation of cilium assembly; and positive regulation of proteinlocalization to cilium. Located in cytoskeleton; cytosol; and plasma membrane.[provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
CRYBG1: Predicted to enable carbohydrate binding activity. [provided by Allianceof Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
CX3CL1: This gene belongs to the CX3C subgroup of chemokines, characterizedby the number of amino acids located between the conserved cysteine residues.This is the only member of the CX3C subgroup, which contains three amino acidsbetween cysteine residues, resulting in a Cys-X-X-X-Cys configuration. Theencoded protein contains an extended mucin-like stalk with a chemokine domainon top, and exists in both a membrane-anchored form where it acts as a bindingmolecule, or, in soluble form, as a chemotactic cytokine. The mature formof this protein can be cleaved at the cell surface, yielding different solubleforms that can interact with the G-protein coupled receptor, C-X3-C motifchemokine receptor 1 gene product. This gene plays a role in a wide rangeof diseases, including cancer, vasculitis, neuropathies, atherosclerosis,inflammatory diseases, and in human immunodeficiency virus infections. [providedby RefSeq, Sep 2017]
DCBLD2: Involved in negative regulation of cell growth and wound healing.Located in cell surface. Is integral component of plasma membrane. [providedby Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
EFNA5: Ephrin-A5, a member of the ephrin gene family, prevents axon bundlingin cocultures of cortical neurons with astrocytes, a model of late stage nervoussystem development and differentiation. The EPH and EPH-related receptorscomprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and havebeen implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervoussystem. EPH receptors typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellularregion containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. Theephrin ligands and receptors have been named by the Eph Nomenclature Committee(1997). Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins aredivided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membraneby a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class,which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are similarlydivided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domainsequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
EPHB4: Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmentalprocesses, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures andsequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class,which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage,and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph familyof receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellulardomain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands.Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase(RTK) family. The protein encoded by this gene binds to ephrin-B2 and playsan essential role in vascular development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
FLOT2: Caveolae are small domains on the inner cell membrane involved in vesiculartrafficking and signal transduction. This gene encodes a caveolae-associated,integral membrane protein, which is thought to function in neuronal signaling.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GAS1: Growth arrest-specific 1 plays a role in growth suppression.  GAS1 blocksentry to S phase and prevents cycling of normal and transformed cells.  Gas1is a putative tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GATA3: This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcriptionfactors. The protein contains two GATA-type zinc fingers and is an importantregulator of T-cell development and plays an important role in endothelialcell biology. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypoparathyroidism withsensorineural deafness and renal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]
GHRL: This gene encodes the ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein that is cleavedto yield two peptides, ghrelin and obestatin. Ghrelin is a powerful appetitestimulant and plays an important role in energy homeostasis. Its secretionis initiated when the stomach is empty, whereupon it binds to the growth hormonesecretagogue receptor in the hypothalamus which results in the secretion ofgrowth hormone (somatotropin). Ghrelin is thought to regulate multiple activities,including hunger, reward perception via the mesolimbic pathway, gastric acidsecretion, gastrointestinal motility, and pancreatic glucose-stimulated insulinsecretion. It was initially proposed that obestatin plays an opposing roleto ghrelin by promoting satiety and thus decreasing food intake, but thisaction is still debated. Recent reports suggest multiple metabolic roles forobestatin, including regulating adipocyte function and glucose metabolism.Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. In addition,antisense transcripts for this gene have been identified and may potentiallyregulate ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein expression. [provided by RefSeq,Nov 2014]
GSTM3: Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase areencoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classesof the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have beenidentified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This geneencodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu classof enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, includingcarcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidativestress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class ofenzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are knownto be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual''ssusceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity andefficacy of certain drugs. Mutations of this class mu gene have been linkedwith a slight increase in a number of cancers, likely due to exposure withenvironmental toxins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcriptvariants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]
HSPB1: This gene encodes a member of the small heat shock protein (HSP20)family of proteins. In response to environmental stress, the encoded proteintranslocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and functions as a molecularchaperone that promotes the correct folding of other proteins. This proteinplays an important role in the differentiation of a wide variety of cell types.Expression of this gene is correlated with poor clinical outcome in multiplehuman cancers, and the encoded protein may promote cancer cell proliferationand metastasis, while protecting cancer cells from apoptosis. Mutations inthis gene have been identified in human patients with Charcot-Marie-Toothdisease and distal hereditary motor neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
IL2RB: The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immuneresponses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit and is not involvedin signal transduction. The intermediate affinity form consists of an alpha/betasubunit heterodimer, while the high affinity form consists of an alpha/beta/gammasubunit heterotrimer. Both the intermediate and high affinity forms of thereceptor are involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis and transduction ofmitogenic signals from interleukin 2. The protein encoded by this gene representsthe beta subunit and is a type I membrane protein. The use of alternativepromoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.The protein is primarily expressed in the hematopoietic system. The use bysome variants of an alternate promoter in an upstream long terminal repeat(LTR) results in placenta-specific expression. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]
IL2RG: The protein encoded by this gene is an important signaling componentof many interleukin receptors, including those of interleukin -2, -4, -7 and-21, and is thus referred to as the common gamma chain. Mutations in thisgene cause X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID), as well as X-linkedcombined immunodeficiency (XCID), a less severe immunodeficiency disorder.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]
LYN: This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe involved inthe regulation of mast cell degranulation, and erythroid differentiation.Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms havebeen found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]
LYPD3: Predicted to enable laminin binding activity. Predicted to act upstreamof or within cell-matrix adhesion. Located in extracellular space. [providedby Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MAL: The protein encoded by this gene is a highly hydrophobic integral membraneprotein belonging to the MAL family of proteolipids. The protein has beenlocalized to the endoplasmic reticulum of T-cells and is a candidate linkerprotein in T-cell signal transduction. In addition, this proteolipid is localizedin compact myelin of cells in the nervous system and has been implicated inmyelin biogenesis and/or function. The protein plays a role in the formation,stabilization and maintenance of glycosphingolipid-enriched membrane microdomains.Down-regulation of this gene has been associated with a variety of human epithelialmalignancies. Alternative splicing produces four transcript variants whichvary from each other by the presence or absence of alternatively spliced exons2 and 3. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
MDGA1: This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored cellsurface glycoprotein that is expressed predominantly in the developing nervoussystem. In addition to possessing several cell adhesion molecule-like domains,the mature protein has six Ig-like domains, a single fibronectin type IIIdomain, a MAM domain and a C-terminal GPI-anchoring site. Studies in othermammals suggest this protein plays a role in cell adhesion, migration, andaxon guidance and, in the developing brain, neuronal migration. In humans,this gene is associated with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. [providedby RefSeq, Oct 2016]
NCOA6: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional coactivator thatcan interact with nuclear hormone receptors to enhance their transcriptionalactivator functions. This protein has been shown to be involved in the hormone-dependentcoactivation of several receptors, including prostanoid, retinoid, vitaminD3, thyroid hormone, and steroid receptors. Alternatively spliced transcriptvariants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [providedby RefSeq, Jun 2011]
NTNG1: This gene encodes a preproprotein that is processed into a secretedprotein containing eukaroytic growth factor (EGF)-like domains. This proteinacts to guide axon growth during neuronal development. Polymorphisms in thisgene may be associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results inmultiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq,Aug 2015]
PCSK9: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertasefamily, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursorstrafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway.The encoded protein undergoes an autocatalytic processing event with its prosegmentin the ER and is constitutively secreted as an inactive protease into theextracellular matrix and trans-Golgi network. It is expressed in liver, intestineand kidney tissues and escorts specific receptors for lysosomal degradation.It plays a role in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. Mutations in thisgene have been associated with autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia.Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided byRefSeq, Feb 2014]
PKHD1: The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to have a single transmembrane(TM)-spanning domain and multiple copies of an immunoglobulin-like plexin-transcription-factordomain. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding differentisoforms. Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described, butthe full length sequences have not been determined. Several of these transcriptsare predicted to encode truncated products which lack the TM and may be secreted.Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease,also known as polycystic kidney and hepatic disease-1. [provided by RefSeq,Jul 2008]
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surfaceplasminogen activation and localized degradation of the extracellular matrix.It binds both the proprotein and mature forms of urokinase plasminogen activatorand permits the activation of the receptor-bound pro-enzyme by plasmin. Theprotein lacks transmembrane or cytoplasmic domains and may be anchored tothe plasma membrane by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety followingcleavage of the nascent polypeptide near its carboxy-terminus. However, asoluble protein is also produced in some cell types. Alternative splicingresults in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. The proproteinexperiences several post-translational cleavage reactions that have not yetbeen fully defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RHCG: Enables ammonium transmembrane transporter activity; ankyrin bindingactivity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in ammonium transmembranetransport; cellular ion homeostasis; and transepithelial ammonium transport.Located in apical plasma membrane and basolateral plasma membrane. Is integralcomponent of plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr2022]
RTN4RL1: Enables signaling receptor activity. Predicted to be involved innegative regulation of axon regeneration. Located in cell surface. Is anchoredcomponent of plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr2022]
SCUBE1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that is a member ofthe SCUBE (signal peptide, CUB domain, EGF (epidermal growth factor)-likeprotein) family. Family members have an amino-terminal signal peptide, ninecopies of EGF-like repeats and a CUB domain at the carboxyl terminus. Thisprotein is expressed in platelets and endothelial cells and may play an importantrole in vascular biology. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]
SHROOM2: This gene represents the human homolog of Xenopus laevis apical protein(APX) gene, which is implicated in amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity.It is expressed in endothelial cells and facilitates the formation of a contractilenetwork within endothelial cells. Depletion of this gene results in an increasein endothelial sprouting, migration, and angiogenesis. This gene is highlyexpressed in the retina, and is a strong candidate for ocular albinism type1 syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found forthis gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016]
SLC22A12: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the organic aniontransporter (OAT) family, and it acts as a urate transporter to regulate uratelevels in blood. This protein is an integral membrane protein primarily foundin epithelial cells of the proximal tubule of the kidney. An elevated levelof serum urate, hyperuricemia, is associated with increased incidences ofgout, and mutations in this gene cause renal hypouricemia type 1. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan2013]
SLC2A4: This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 2 (facilitatedglucose transporter) family and encodes a protein that functions as an insulin-regulatedfacilitative glucose transporter. In the absence of insulin, this integralmembrane protein is sequestered within the cells of muscle and adipose tissue.Within minutes of insulin stimulation, the protein moves to the cell surfaceand begins to transport glucose across the cell membrane. Mutations in thisgene have been associated with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SLC34A3: This gene encodes a member of SLC34A transporter family of proteins,and is expressed primarily in the kidney. It is involved in transporting phosphateinto cells via sodium cotransport in the renal brush border membrane, andcontributes to the maintenance of inorganic phosphate concentration in thekidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary hypophosphatemicrickets with hypercalciuria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants varyingin the 5'' UTR have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]
SRPX: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in cell adhesion. Predicted to act upstream of or within severalprocesses, including negative regulation of cell proliferation involved incontact inhibition; phagolysosome assembly; and positive regulation of extrinsicapoptotic signaling pathway in absence of ligand. Part of collagen-containingextracellular matrix. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SULF2: Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) act as coreceptors for numerousheparin-binding growth factors and cytokines and are involved in cell signaling.Heparan sulfate 6-O-endosulfatases, such as SULF2, selectively remove 6-O-sulfategroups from heparan sulfate. This activity modulates the effects of heparansulfate by altering binding sites for signaling molecules (Dai et al., 2005[PubMed 16192265]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
THY1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein and member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily of proteins. The encoded protein is involved in cell adhesionand cell communication in numerous cell types, but particularly in cells ofthe immune and nervous systems. The encoded protein is widely used as a markerfor hematopoietic stem cells. This gene may function as a tumor suppressorin nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcriptvariants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015]
TMEM8B: Involved in cell-matrix adhesion. Located in cell surface and plasmamembrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
////
ABCC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra-and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a multispecific organic anion transporter, with oxidized glutatione, cysteinyl leukotrienes, and activated aflatoxin B1 as substrates. This protein also transports glucuronides and sulfate conjugates of steroid hormones and bile salts. Alternatively spliced variants of this gene have been described but their full-length nature is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]
ATOX1: This gene encodes a copper chaperone that plays a role in copper homeostasis by binding and transporting cytosolic copper to ATPase proteins in the trans-Golgi network for later incorporation to the ceruloplasmin. This protein also functions as an antioxidant against superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, and therefore, may play a significant role in cancer carcinogenesis. Because of its cytogenetic location, this gene represents a candidate gene for 5q-syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CAT: This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Oxidative stress is hypothesized to play a role in the development of many chronic or late-onset diseases such as diabetes, asthma, Alzheimer's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancers. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with decreases in catalase activity but, to date, acatalasemia is the only disease known to be caused by this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
CDKN2D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to form a stable complex with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of the CDK kinases, thus function as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. The abundance of the transcript of this gene was found to oscillate in a cell-cycle dependent manner with the lowest expression at mid G1 and a maximal expression during S phase. The negative regulation of the cell cycle involved in this protein was shown to participate in repressing neuronal proliferation, as well as spermatogenesis. Two alternatively spliced variants of this gene, which encode an identical protein, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
EGLN2: The hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) is a transcriptional complex that is involved in oxygen homeostasis. At normal oxygen levels, the alpha subunit of HIF is targeted for degration by prolyl hydroxylation. This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for this post-translational modification. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream RAB4B (RAB4B, member RAS oncogene family) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]
ERCC2: The nucleotide excision repair pathway is a mechanism to repair damage to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair and is an integral member of the basal transcription factor BTF2/TFIIH complex. The gene product has ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity and belongs to the RAD3/XPD subfamily of helicases. Defects in this gene can result in three different disorders, the cancer-prone syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group D, trichothiodystrophy, and Cockayne syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]
FES: This gene encodes the human cellular counterpart of a feline sarcoma retrovirus protein with transforming capabilities. The gene product has tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity and that activity is required for maintenance of cellular transformation. Its chromosomal location has linked it to a specific translocation event identified in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia but it is also involved in normal hematopoiesis as well as growth factor and cytokine receptor signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]
FTL: This gene encodes the light subunit of the ferritin protein. Ferritin is the major intracellular iron storage protein in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is composed of 24 subunits of the heavy and light ferritin chains. Variation in ferritin subunit composition may affect the rates of iron uptake and release in different tissues. A major function of ferritin is the storage of iron in a soluble and nontoxic state. Defects in this light chain ferritin gene are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases and hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
G6PD: This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This protein is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function is to produce NADPH, a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions. G6PD is remarkable for its genetic diversity. Many variants of G6PD, mostly produced from missense mutations, have been described with wide ranging levels of enzyme activity and associated clinical symptoms. G6PD deficiency may cause neonatal jaundice, acute hemolysis, or severe chronic non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
GCLC: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase is the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. This locus encodes the catalytic subunit, while the regulatory subunit is derived from a different gene located on chromosome 1p22-p21. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to deficiency of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and susceptibility to myocardial infarction.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]
GCLM: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, is the first rate limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. Gamma glutamylcysteine synthetase deficiency has been implicated in some forms of hemolytic anemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]
GLRX: This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded protein is a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reduction of glutathione-protein mixed disulfides. This enzyme highly contributes to the antioxidant defense system. It is crucial for several signalling pathways by controlling the S-glutathionylation status of signalling mediators. It is involved in beta-amyloid toxicity and Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
GLRX2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glutaredoxin family of proteins, which maintain cellular thiol homeostasis. These proteins are thiol-disulfide oxidoreductases that use a glutathione-binding site and one or two active cysteines in their active site. This gene undergoes alternative splicing to produce multiple isoforms, one of which is ubiquitously expressed and localizes to mitochondria, where it functions in mitochondrial redox homeostasis and is important for the protection against and recovery from oxidative stress. Other isoforms, which have more restrictive expression patterns, show cytosolic and nuclear localization, and are thought to function in cellular differentiation and transformation, possibly with a role in tumor progression. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
GPX3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxides and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates, which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme is secreted, and is abundantly found in plasma. Downregulation of expression of this gene by promoter hypermethylation has been observed in a wide spectrum of human malignancies, including thyroid cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic myeloid leukemia. This isozyme is also a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec) at its active site. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organic hydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates, which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme has a high preference for lipid hydroperoxides and protects cells against membrane lipid peroxidation and cell death. It is also required for normal sperm development; thus, it has been identified as a 'moonlighting' protein because of its ability to serve dual functions as a peroxidase, as well as a structural protein in mature spermatozoa. Mutations in this gene are associated with Sedaghatian type of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia (SMDS). This isozyme is also a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec) at its active site. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. Transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing or use of alternate promoters have been described to encode isoforms with different subcellular localization. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2018]
GSR: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. This enzyme is a homodimeric flavoprotein. It is a central enzyme of cellular antioxidant defense, and reduces oxidized glutathione disulfide (GSSG) to the sulfhydryl form GSH, which is an important cellular antioxidant. Rare mutations in this gene result in hereditary glutathione reductase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]
HHEX: This gene encodes a member of the homeobox family of transcription factors, many of which are involved in developmental processes. Expression in specific hematopoietic lineages suggests that this protein may play a role in hematopoietic differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HMOX2: Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves heme to form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase, and carbon monoxide, a putative neurotransmitter. Heme oxygenase activity is induced by its substrate heme and by various nonheme substances. Heme oxygenase occurs as 2 isozymes, an inducible heme oxygenase-1 and a constitutive heme oxygenase-2. HMOX1 and HMOX2 belong to the heme oxygenase family. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]
IPCEF1: Predicted to enable peroxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in response to oxidative stress. Predicted to be located in cytosol and plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of transcription factor AP-1 complex. Biomarker of Hodgkin's lymphoma and anaplastic large cell lymphoma. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
LAMTOR5: This gene encodes a protein that specifically complexes with the C-terminus of hepatitis B virus X protein (HBx). The function of this protein is to negatively regulate HBx activity and thus to alter the replication life cycle of the virus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
LSP1: This gene encodes an intracellular F-actin binding protein. The protein is expressed in lymphocytes, neutrophils, macrophages, and endothelium and may regulate neutrophil motility, adhesion to fibrinogen matrix proteins, and transendothelial migration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MBP: The protein encoded by the classic MBP gene is a major constituent of the myelin sheath of oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells in the nervous system. However, MBP-related transcripts are also present in the bone marrow and the immune system. These mRNAs arise from the long MBP gene (otherwise called "Golli-MBP") that contains 3 additional exons located upstream of the classic MBP exons. Alternative splicing from the Golli and the MBP transcription start sites gives rise to 2 sets of MBP-related transcripts and gene products. The Golli mRNAs contain 3 exons unique to Golli-MBP, spliced in-frame to 1 or more MBP exons. They encode hybrid proteins that have N-terminal Golli aa sequence linked to MBP aa sequence. The second family of transcripts contain only MBP exons and produce the well characterized myelin basic proteins. This complex gene structure is conserved among species suggesting that the MBP transcription unit is an integral part of the Golli transcription unit and that this arrangement is important for the function and/or regulation of these genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MGST1: The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family consists of six human proteins, two of which are involved in the production of leukotrienes and prostaglandin E, important mediators of inflammation. Other family members, demonstrating glutathione S-transferase and peroxidase activities, are involved in cellular defense against toxic, carcinogenic, and pharmacologically active electrophilic compounds. This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the conjugation of glutathione to electrophiles and the reduction of lipid hydroperoxides. This protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and outer mitochondrial membrane where it is thought to protect these membranes from oxidative stress. Several transcript variants, some non-protein coding and some protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
MPO: Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a heme protein synthesized during myeloid differentiation that constitutes the major component of neutrophil azurophilic granules. Produced as a single chain precursor, myeloperoxidase is subsequently cleaved into a light and heavy chain. The mature myeloperoxidase is a tetramer composed of 2 light chains and 2 heavy chains. This enzyme produces hypohalous acids central to the microbicidal activity of neutrophils. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
MSRA: This gene encodes a ubiquitous and highly conserved protein that carries out the enzymatic reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine. Human and animal studies have shown the highest levels of expression in kidney and nervous tissue. The protein functions in the repair of oxidatively damaged proteins to restore biological activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]
NDUFA6: This gene encodes a member of the LYR family of proteins that contain a highly conserved tripeptide (LYR) motif near the N-terminus. The encoded protein is an accessory subunit of NADH: ubiquinone oxidorerductase (Complex I), which is the largest enzyme of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain. Complex I functions in electron transfer from NADH to the respiratory chain. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]
NDUFB4: This gene encodes a non-catalytic subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, the first enzyme complex in the mitochondrial electron transport chain (complex I). Mammalian complex I is composed of 45 different subunits and transfers electrons from NADH to ubiquinone. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]
NDUFS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I). Mammalian mitochondrial complex I is composed of at least 43 different subunits, 7 of which are encoded by the mitochondrial genome, and the rest are the products of nuclear genes. The iron-sulfur protein fraction of complex I is made up of 7 subunits, including this gene product. Complex I catalyzes the NADH oxidation with concomitant ubiquinone reduction and proton ejection out of the mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
NQO1: This gene is a member of the NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) family and encodes a cytoplasmic 2-electron reductase. This FAD-binding protein forms homodimers and reduces quinones to hydroquinones. This protein's enzymatic activity prevents the one electron reduction of quinones that results in the production of radical species. Mutations in this gene have been associated with tardive dyskinesia (TD), an increased risk of hematotoxicity after exposure to benzene, and susceptibility to various forms of cancer. Altered expression of this protein has been seen in many tumors and is also associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
OXSR1: The product of this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family of proteins. It regulates downstream kinases in response to environmental stress, and may play a role in regulating the actin cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PDLIM1: This gene encodes a member of the enigma protein family. The protein contains two protein interacting domains, a PDZ domain at the amino terminal end and one to three LIM domains at the carboxyl terminal. It is a cytoplasmic protein associated with the cytoskeleton. The protein may function as an adapter to bring other LIM-interacting proteins to the cytoskeleton. Pseudogenes associated with this gene are located on chromosomes 3, 14 and 17. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]
PFKP: This gene encodes a member of the phosphofructokinase A protein family. The encoded enzyme is the platelet-specific isoform of phosphofructokinase and plays a key role in glycolysis regulation. This gene may play a role in metabolic reprogramming in some cancers, including clear cell renal cell carcinomas, and cancer of the bladder, breast, and lung. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]
PRDX1: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein may play an antioxidant protective role in cells, and may contribute to the antiviral activity of CD8(+) T-cells. This protein may have a proliferative effect and play a role in cancer development or progression. Four transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]
PRDX2: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein plays an antioxidant protective role in cells, and it may contribute to the antiviral activity of CD8(+) T-cells. The crystal structure of this protein has been resolved to 2.7 angstroms. This protein prevents hemolytic anemia from oxidative stress by stabilizing hemoglobin, thus making this gene a therapeutic target for patients with hemolytic anemia. This protein may have a proliferative effect and play a role in cancer development or progression. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 5, 6, 10 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]
PRDX4: The protein encoded by this gene is an antioxidant enzyme and belongs to the peroxiredoxin family. The protein is localized to the cytoplasm. Peroxidases of the peroxiredoxin family reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides to water and alcohol with the use of reducing equivalents derived from thiol-containing donor molecules. This protein has been found to play a regulatory role in the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PRDX6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the thiol-specific antioxidant protein family. This protein is a bifunctional enzyme with two distinct active sites. It is involved in redox regulation of the cell; it can reduce H(2)O(2) and short chain organic, fatty acid, and phospholipid hydroperoxides. It may play a role in the regulation of phospholipid turnover as well as in protection against oxidative injury. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PRNP: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats. This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene. Mutations in the repeat region as well as elsewhere in this gene have been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fatal familial insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler disease, Huntington disease-like 1, and kuru. An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]
PTPA: Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases and is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. Protein phosphatase 2A holoenzymes are heterotrimeric proteins composed of a structural subunit A, a catalytic subunit C, and a regulatory subunit B. The regulatory subunit is encoded by a diverse set of genes that have been grouped into the B/PR55, B'/PR61, and B''/PR72 families. These different regulatory subunits confer distinct enzymatic specificities and intracellular localizations to the holozenzyme. The product of this gene belongs to the B' family. This gene encodes a specific phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator of the dimeric form of protein phosphatase 2A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SBNO2: Predicted to enable chromatin DNA binding activity and histone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to interleukin-6; macrophage activation involved in immune response; and negative regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. Predicted to be active in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SCAF4: This gene likely encodes a member of the arginine/serine-rich splicing factor family. A similar protein in Rat appears to bind the large subunit of RNA polymerase II and provide a link between transcription and pre-mRNA splicing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]
SELENOS: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). It is involved in the degradation process of misfolded proteins in the ER, and may also have a role in inflammation control. This protein is a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec). Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. Two additional phylogenetically conserved stem-loop structures (Stem-loop 1 and Stem-loop 2) in the 3' UTR of this mRNA have been shown to function as modulators of Sec insertion. An alternatively spliced transcript variant, lacking the SECIS element and encoding a non-Sec containing shorter isoform, has been described for this gene (PMID:23614019). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017]
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. The other isozyme is a mitochondrial protein. In addition, this protein contains an antimicrobial peptide that displays antibacterial, antifungal, and anti-MRSA activity against E. coli, E. faecalis, S. aureus, S. aureus MRSA LPV+, S. agalactiae, and yeast C. krusei. Mutations in this gene have been implicated as causes of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Rare transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2020]
SOD2: This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family. It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetramer and binds one manganese ion per subunit. This protein binds to the superoxide byproducts of oxidative phosphorylation and converts them to hydrogen peroxide and diatomic oxygen. Mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic cardiomyopathy (IDC), premature aging, sporadic motor neuron disease, and cancer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]
SRXN1: Enables oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors. Involved in response to oxidative stress. Located in cytosol. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
STK25: This gene encodes a member of the germinal centre kinase III (GCK III) subfamily of the sterile 20 superfamily of kinases. The encoded enzyme plays a role in serine-threonine liver kinase B1 (LKB1) signaling pathway to regulate neuronal polarization and morphology of the Golgi apparatus. The protein is translocated from the Golgi apparatus to the nucleus in response to chemical anoxia and plays a role in regulation of cell death. A pseudogene associated with this gene is located on chromosome 18. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]
TXN: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homodimer and is involved in many redox reactions. The encoded protein is active in the reversible S-nitrosylation of cysteines in certain proteins, which is part of the response to intracellular nitric oxide. This protein is found in the cytoplasm. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]
TXNRD1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family, and is a member of the thioredoxin (Trx) system. Three thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) isozymes are found in mammals. TrxRs are selenocysteine-containing flavoenzymes, which reduce thioredoxins, as well as other substrates, and play a key role in redox homoeostasis. This gene encodes an ubiquitously expressed, cytosolic form of TrxR, which functions as a homodimer containing FAD, and selenocysteine (Sec) at the active site. Sec is encoded by UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternative splicing, primarily at the 5' end, results in transcript variants encoding same or different isoforms, including a glutaredoxin-containing isoform that is predominantly expressed in testis. [provided by RefSeq, May 2017]
TXNRD2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family, and is a member of the thioredoxin (Trx) system. Three thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) isozymes are found in mammals. TrxRs are selenocysteine-containing flavoenzymes, which reduce thioredoxins, as well as other substrates, and play a key role in redox homoeostasis. This gene encodes a mitochondrial form important for scavenging reactive oxygen species in mitochondria. It functions as a homodimer containing FAD, and selenocysteine (Sec) at the active site. Sec is encoded by UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms, including a few localized in the cytosol and some lacking the C-terminal Sec residue, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2017]
////
ACVR1: Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I ( I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. This gene encodes activin A type I receptor which signals a particular transcriptional response in concert with activin type II receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
APC: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonist of the Wnt signaling pathway. It is also involved in other processes including cell migration and adhesion, transcriptional activation, and apoptosis. Defects in this gene cause familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), an autosomal dominant pre-malignant disease that usually progresses to malignancy. Mutations in the APC gene have been found to occur in most colorectal cancers, where disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2022]
ARID4B: This gene encodes a protein with sequence similarity to retinoblastoma-binding protein-1. The encoded protein is a subunit of the histone deacetylase-dependant SIN3A transcriptional corepressor complex, which functions in diverse cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, oncogenesis, and cell fate determination. The gene product is recognized by IgG antibody isolated from a breast cancer patient and appears to be a molecular marker associated with a broad range of human malignancies. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BCAR3: Breast tumors are initially dependent on estrogens for growth and progression and can be inhibited by anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen. However, breast cancers progress to become anti-estrogen resistant. Breast cancer anti-estrogen resistance gene 3 was identified in the search for genes involved in the development of estrogen resistance. The gene encodes a component of intracellular signal transduction that causes estrogen-independent proliferation in human breast cancer cells. The protein contains a putative src homology 2 (SH2) domain, a hall mark of cellular tyrosine kinase signaling molecules, and is partly homologous to the cell division cycle protein CDC48. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]
BMP2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer, which plays a role in bone and cartilage development. Duplication of a regulatory region downstream of this gene causes a form of brachydactyly characterized by a malformed index finger and second toe in human patients. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]
BMPR1A: The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors are a family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases that include the type I receptors BMPR1A and BMPR1B and the type II receptor BMPR2. These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2. The ligands of these receptors are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. TGF-betas and activins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes with 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
BMPR2: This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of two different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, both familial and fenfluramine-associated, and with pulmonary venoocclusive disease. [provided by RefSeq, May 2020]
CDH1: This gene encodes a classical cadherin of the cadherin superfamily. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature glycoprotein. This calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion protein is comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer. Loss of function of this gene is thought to contribute to cancer progression by increasing proliferation, invasion, and/or metastasis. The ectodomain of this protein mediates bacterial adhesion to mammalian cells and the cytoplasmic domain is required for internalization. This gene is present in a gene cluster with other members of the cadherin family on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015]
CDK9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28, and S. pombe cdc2, and known as important cell cycle regulators. This kinase was found to be a component of the multiprotein complex TAK/P-TEFb, which is an elongation factor for RNA polymerase II-directed transcription and functions by phosphorylating the C-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. This protein forms a complex with and is regulated by its regulatory subunit cyclin T or cyclin K. HIV-1 Tat protein was found to interact with this protein and cyclin T, which suggested a possible involvement of this protein in AIDS. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CDKN1C: This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternal allele. The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/Cdk complexes and a negative regulator of cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are implicated in sporadic cancers and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndorome, suggesting that this gene is a tumor suppressor candidate. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]
CTNNB1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
ENG: This gene encodes a homodimeric transmembrane protein which is a major glycoprotein of the vascular endothelium. This protein is a component of the transforming growth factor beta receptor complex and it binds to the beta1 and beta3 peptides with high affinity. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, also known as Osler-Rendu-Weber syndrome 1, an autosomal dominant multisystemic vascular dysplasia. This gene may also be involved in preeclampsia and several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]
FKBP1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. The protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It interacts with several intracellular signal transduction proteins including type I TGF-beta receptor. It also interacts with multiple intracellular calcium release channels, and coordinates multi-protein complex formation of the tetrameric skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor. In mouse, deletion of this homologous gene causes congenital heart disorder known as noncompaction of left ventricular myocardium. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. The human genome contains five pseudogenes related to this gene, at least one of which is transcribed. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]
FNTA: Prenyltransferases can attach either a farnesyl group or a geranylgeranyl group in thioether linkage to the cysteine residue of proteins with a C-terminal CAAX box. CAAX geranylgeranyltransferase and CAAX farnesyltransferase are heterodimers that share the same alpha subunit but have different beta subunits. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of these transferases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]
FURIN: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease that is expressed in many tissues, including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and brain. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER and then sorts to the trans-Golgi network through endosomes where a second autocatalytic event takes place and the catalytic activity is acquired. Like other members of this convertase family, the product of this gene specifically cleaves substrates at single or paired basic residues. Some of its substrates include proparathyroid hormone, transforming growth factor beta 1 precursor, proalbumin, pro-beta-secretase, membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase, beta subunit of pro-nerve growth factor and von Willebrand factor. It is thought to be one of the proteases responsible for the activation of HIV envelope glycoproteins gp160 and gp140, and may play a role in tumor progression. Unlike SARS-CoV and other coronaviruses, the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 is thought to be uniquely cleaved by this protease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2020]
HDAC1: Histone acetylation and deacetylation, catalyzed by multisubunit complexes, play a key role in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family and is a component of the histone deacetylase complex. It also interacts with retinoblastoma tumor-suppressor protein and this complex is a key element in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation. Together with metastasis-associated protein-2, it deacetylates p53 and modulates its effect on cell growth and apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
HIPK2: This gene encodes a conserved serine/threonine kinase that is a member of the homeodomain-interacting protein kinase family. The encoded protein interacts with homeodomain transcription factors and many other transcription factors such as p53, and can function as both a corepressor and a coactivator depending on the transcription factor and its subcellular localization. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]
ID1: The protein encoded by this gene is a helix-loop-helix (HLH) protein that can form heterodimers with members of the basic HLH family of transcription factors. The encoded protein has no DNA binding activity and therefore can inhibit the DNA binding and transcriptional activation ability of basic HLH proteins with which it interacts. This protein may play a role in cell growth, senescence, and differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
ID2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inhibitor of DNA binding family, members of which are transcriptional regulators that contain a helix-loop-helix (HLH) domain but not a basic domain. Members of the inhibitor of DNA binding family inhibit the functions of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors in a dominant-negative manner by suppressing their heterodimerization partners through the HLH domains. This protein may play a role in negatively regulating cell differentiation. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
ID3: The protein encoded by this gene is a helix-loop-helix (HLH) protein that can form heterodimers with other HLH proteins. However, the encoded protein lacks a basic DNA-binding domain and therefore inhibits the DNA binding of any HLH protein with which it interacts. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
IFNGR2: This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimer of IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. Defects in IFNGR2 are a cause of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial disease (MSMD), also known as familial disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection. MSMD is a genetically heterogeneous disease with autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant or X-linked inheritance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of transcription factor AP-1 complex. Biomarker of Hodgkin's lymphoma and anaplastic large cell lymphoma. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
KLF10: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that feature C2H2-type zinc finger domains. The encoded protein is a transcriptional repressor that acts as an effector of transforming growth factor beta signaling. Activity of this protein may inhibit the growth of cancers, particularly pancreatic cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]
LEFTY2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which plays a role in left-right asymmetry determination of organ systems during development. The protein may also play a role in endometrial bleeding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with left-right axis malformations, particularly in the heart and lungs. Some types of infertility have been associated with dysregulated expression of this gene in the endometrium. This gene is closely linked to both a related family member and a related pseudogene. This gene encodes multiple isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
LTBP2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of latent transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta binding proteins (LTBP), which are extracellular matrix proteins with multi-domain structure. This protein is the largest member of the LTBP family possessing unique regions and with most similarity to the fibrillins. It has thus been suggested that it may have multiple functions: as a member of the TGF-beta latent complex, as a structural component of microfibrils, and a role in cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
MAP3K7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase mediates the signaling transduction induced by TGF beta and morphogenetic protein (BMP), and controls a variety of cell functions including transcription regulation and apoptosis. In response to IL-1, this protein forms a kinase complex including TRAF6, MAP3K7P1/TAB1 and MAP3K7P2/TAB2; this complex is required for the activation of nuclear factor kappa B. This kinase can also activate MAPK8/JNK, MAP2K4/MKK4, and thus plays a role in the cell response to environmental stresses. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
NCOR2: This gene encodes a nuclear receptor co-repressor that mediates transcriptional silencing of certain target genes. The encoded protein is a member of a family of thyroid hormone- and retinoic acid receptor-associated co-repressors. This protein acts as part of a multisubunit complex which includes histone deacetylases to modify chromatin structure that prevents basal transcriptional activity of target genes. Aberrant expression of this gene is associated with certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]
NOG: The secreted polypeptide, encoded by this gene, binds and inactivates members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily signaling proteins, such as bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4). By diffusing through extracellular matrices more efficiently than members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this protein may have a principal role in creating morphogenic gradients. The protein appears to have pleiotropic effect, both early in development as well as in later stages. It was originally isolated from Xenopus based on its ability to restore normal dorsal-ventral body axis in embryos that had been artificially ventralized by UV treatment. The results of the mouse knockout of the ortholog suggest that it is involved in numerous developmental processes, such as neural tube fusion and joint formation. Recently, several dominant human NOG mutations in unrelated families with proximal symphalangism (SYM1) and multiple synostoses syndrome (SYNS1) were identified; both SYM1 and SYNS1 have multiple joint fusion as their principal feature, and map to the same region (17q22) as this gene. All of these mutations altered evolutionarily conserved amino acid residues. The amino acid sequence of this human gene is highly homologous to that of Xenopus, rat and mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PMEPA1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a Smad interacting motif (SIM). Expression of this gene is induced by androgens and transforming growth factor beta, and the encoded protein suppresses the androgen receptor and transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways though interactions with Smad proteins. Overexpression of this gene may play a role in multiple types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]
PPM1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase dephosphorylates, and negatively regulates the activities of, MAP kinases and MAP kinase kinases. It has been shown to inhibit the activation of p38 and JNK kinase cascades induced by environmental stresses. This phosphatase can also dephosphorylate cyclin-dependent kinases, and thus may be involved in cell cycle control. Overexpression of this phosphatase is reported to activate the expression of the tumor suppressor gene TP53/p53, which leads to G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
PPP1CA: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three catalytic subunits of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). This broadly expressed gene encodes the alpha subunit of the PP1 complex that associates with over 200 regulatory proteins to form holoenzymes which dephosphorylate their biological targets with high specificity. PP1 is a serine/threonine specific protein phosphatase known to be involved in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes, such as cell division, glycogen metabolism, muscle contractility, protein synthesis, and HIV-1 viral transcription. Increased PP1 activity has been observed in the end stage of heart failure. Studies suggest that PP1 is an important regulator of cardiac function and that PP1 deregulation is implicated in diabetes and multiple types of cancer. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2020]
PPP1R15A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment with DNA-damaging agents. The induction of this gene by ionizing radiation occurs in certain cell lines regardless of p53 status, and its protein response is correlated with apoptosis following ionizing radiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RAB31: Small GTP-binding proteins of the RAB family, such as RAB31, play essential roles in vesicle and granule targeting (Bao et al., 2002 [PubMed 11784320]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2009]
RHOA: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which cycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states and function as molecular switches in signal transduction cascades. Rho proteins promote reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and regulate cell shape, attachment, and motility. Overexpression of this gene is associated with tumor cell proliferation and metastasis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin) superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis. The protein also functions as a component of innate antiviral immunity. Defects in this gene are the cause of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 deficiency (PAI-1 deficiency), and high concentrations of the gene product are associated with thrombophilia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2020]
SKI: This gene encodes the nuclear protooncogene protein homolog of avian sarcoma viral (v-ski) oncogene. It functions as a repressor of TGF-beta signaling, and may play a role in neural tube development and muscle differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
SKIL: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the SMAD pathway, which regulates cell growth and differentiation through transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB). In the absence of ligand, the encoded protein binds to the promoter region of TGFB-responsive genes and recruits a nuclear repressor complex. TGFB signaling causes SMAD3 to enter the nucleus and degrade this protein, allowing these genes to be activated. Four transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]
SLC20A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-phosphate symporter that absorbs phosphate from interstitial fluid for use in cellular functions such as metabolism, signal transduction, and nucleic acid and lipid synthesis. The encoded protein is also a retroviral receptor, causing human cells to be susceptible to infection by gibbon ape leukemia virus, simian sarcoma-associated virus, feline leukemia virus subgroup B, and 10A1 murine leukemia virus.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]
SMAD1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein mediates the signals of the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), which are involved in a range of biological activities including cell growth, apoptosis, morphogenesis, development and immune responses. In response to BMP ligands, this protein can be phosphorylated and activated by the BMP receptor kinase. The phosphorylated form of this protein forms a complex with SMAD4, which is important for its function in the transcription regulation. This protein is a target for SMAD-specific E3 ubiquitin ligases, such as SMURF1 and SMURF2, and undergoes ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SMAD3: The SMAD family of proteins are a group of intracellular signal transducer proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. The SMAD3 protein functions in the transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway, and transmits signals from the cell surface to the nucleus, regulating gene activity and cell proliferation. This protein forms a complex with other SMAD proteins and binds DNA, functioning both as a transcription factor and tumor suppressor. Mutations in this gene are associated with aneurysms-osteoarthritis syndrome and Loeys-Dietz Syndrome 3. [provided by RefSeq, May 2022]
SMAD6: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD family of proteins, which are related to Drosophila 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and C. elegans Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein functions in the negative regulation of BMP and TGF-beta/activin-signalling. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]
SMAD7: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein that binds the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2. Upon binding, this complex translocates to the cytoplasm, where it interacts with TGF-beta receptor type-1 (TGFBR1), leading to the degradation of both the encoded protein and TGFBR1. Expression of this gene is induced by TGFBR1. Variations in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to colorectal cancer type 3 (CRCS3). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]
SMURF1: This gene encodes a ubiquitin ligase that is specific for receptor-regulated SMAD proteins in the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway. This protein plays a key roll in the regulation of cell motility, cell signalling, and cell polarity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]
SMURF2: Enables SMAD binding activity; identical protein binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in negative regulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway; positive regulation of trophoblast cell migration; and ubiquitin-dependent SMAD protein catabolic process. Located in nuclear speck. Part of ubiquitin ligase complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SPTBN1: Spectrin is an actin crosslinking and molecular scaffold protein that links the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton, and functions in the determination of cell shape, arrangement of transmembrane proteins, and organization of organelles. It is composed of two antiparallel dimers of alpha- and beta- subunits. This gene is one member of a family of beta-spectrin genes. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal actin-binding domain, and 17 spectrin repeats which are involved in dimer formation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein, or in an active form consisting solely of the mature peptide homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGFB family members. This encoded protein regulates cell proliferation, differentiation and growth, and can modulate expression and activation of other growth factors including interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor alpha. This gene is frequently upregulated in tumor cells, and mutations in this gene result in Camurati-Engelmann disease. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
TGFBR1: The protein encoded by this gene forms a heteromeric complex with type II TGF-beta receptors when bound to TGF-beta, transducing the TGF-beta signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm. The encoded protein is a serine/threonine protein kinase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Loeys-Dietz aortic aneurysm syndrome (LDAS). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]
TGIF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the three-amino acid loop extension (TALE) superclass of atypical homeodomains. TALE homeobox proteins are highly conserved transcription regulators. This particular homeodomain binds to a previously characterized retinoid X receptor responsive element from the cellular retinol-binding protein II promoter. In addition to its role in inhibiting 9-cis-retinoic acid-dependent RXR alpha transcription activation of the retinoic acid responsive element, the protein is an active transcriptional co-repressor of SMAD2 and may participate in the transmission of nuclear signals during development and in the adult. Mutations in this gene are associated with holoprosencephaly type 4, which is a structural anomaly of the brain. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and multiple splice variants encoding distinct isoforms are described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
THBS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a disulfide-linked homotrimeric protein. This protein is an adhesive glycoprotein that mediates cell-to-cell and cell-to-matrix interactions. This protein can bind to fibrinogen, fibronectin, laminin, type V collagen and integrins alpha-V/beta-1. This protein has been shown to play roles in platelet aggregation, angiogenesis, and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TJP1: This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins, and acts as a tight junction adaptor protein that also regulates adherens junctions. Tight junctions regulate the movement of ions and macromolecules between endothelial and epithelial cells. The multidomain structure of this scaffold protein, including a postsynaptic density 95/disc-large/zona occludens (PDZ) domain, a Src homology (SH3) domain, a guanylate kinase (GuK) domain and unique (U) motifs all help to co-ordinate binding of transmembrane proteins, cytosolic proteins, and F-actin, which are required for tight junction function. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]
TRIM33: The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a transcriptional corepressor. However, molecules that interact with this protein have not yet been identified. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif family. This motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants for this gene have been described, however, the full-length nature of one variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
UBE2D3: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. This enzyme functions in the ubiquitination of the tumor-suppressor protein p53, which is induced by an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2017]
WWTR1: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including hippo signaling; positive regulation of cell differentiation; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in cytosol and nuclear body. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
XIAP: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of apoptotic suppressor proteins. Members of this family share a conserved motif termed, baculovirus IAP repeat, which is necessary for their anti-apoptotic function. This protein functions through binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2 and inhibits apoptosis induced by menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals, and interleukin 1-beta converting enzyme. This protein also inhibits at least two members of the caspase family of cell-death proteases, caspase-3 and caspase-7. Mutations in this gene are the cause of X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2 and 11.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]
////
ANKLE1: Enables endonuclease activity. Involved in positive regulation of response to DNA damage stimulus and protein export from nucleus. Located in cytosol and nucleoplasm. Colocalizes with nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
BCL2L11: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3). It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family and to act as an apoptotic activator. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1, which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. Transgenic studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene functions as an essential initiator of apoptosis in thymocyte-negative selection. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]
BRIP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DEAH helicase family and interacts with the BRCT repeats of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). The bound complex is important in the normal double-strand break repair function of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). This gene may be a target of germline cancer-inducing mutations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CCNB1IP1: HEI10 is a member of the E3 ubiquitin ligase family and functions in progression of the cell cycle through G(2)/M.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]
CENPC: Centromere protein C 1 is a centromere autoantigen and a component of the inner kinetochore plate. The protein is required for maintaining proper kinetochore size and a timely transition to anaphase. A putative pseudogene exists on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
CENPS: This gene was identified in the neuroblastoma tumor suppressor candidate region on chromosome 1p36. It contains a TFIID-31 domain, similar to that found in TATA box-binding protein-associated factor, TAF(II)31, which is required for p53-mediated transcription activation. This gene was expressed at very low levels in neuroblastoma tumors, and was shown to reduce cell growth in neuroblastoma cells, suggesting that it may have a role in a cell death pathway. The protein is a component of multiple complexes, including the Fanconi anemia (FA) core complex, the APITD1/CENPS complex, and the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex. Known functions include an involvement with chromatin associations of the FA core complex, and a role in the stable assembly of the outer kinetochore. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally occurring read-through transcripts also exist between this gene and the downstream cortistatin (CORT) gene, as represented in GeneID:100526739. An APITD1-related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]
CENPX: Enables DNA binding activity. Contributes to double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in replication fork processing and resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Part of FANCM-MHF complex and Fanconi anaemia nuclear complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
CNTD1: Predicted to be involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination. Predicted to act upstream of or within spermatogenesis. Predicted to be active in site of double-strand break. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
DMC1: This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of recombinases (also called DNA strand-exchange proteins). Recombinases are important for repairing double-strand DNA breaks during mitosis and meiosis. This protein, which is evolutionarily conserved, is reported to be essential for meiotic homologous recombination and may thus play an important role in generating diversity of genetic information. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]
EME1: This gene encodes a protein that complexes with methyl methanesulfonate-sensitive UV-sensitive 81 protein to form an endonuclease complex. The encoded protein interacts with specifc DNA structures including nicked Holliday junctions, 3'-flap structures and aberrant replication fork structures. This protein may be involved in repairing DNA damage and in maintaining genomic stability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
EME2: EME2 forms a heterodimer with MUS81 (MIM 606591) that functions as an XPF (MIM 278760)-type flap/fork endonuclease in DNA repair (Ciccia et al., 2007 [PubMed 17289582]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
ERCC4: The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with ERCC1 and is involved in the 5' incision made during nucleotide excision repair. This complex is a structure specific DNA repair endonuclease that interacts with EME1. Defects in this gene are a cause of xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group F (XP-F), or xeroderma pigmentosum VI (XP6).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]
FANCD2: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group D2. This protein is monoubiquinated in response to DNA damage, resulting in its localization to nuclear foci with other proteins (BRCA1 AND BRCA2) involved in homology-directed DNA repair. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]
HFM1: The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be an ATP-dependent DNA helicase and is expressed mainly in germ-line cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of premature ovarian failure 9 (POF9). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]
IHO1: Predicted to be involved in gamete generation; meiosis I cell cycle process; and regulation of homologous chromosome segregation. Predicted to be active in condensed nuclear chromosome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
KASH5: Predicted to enable dynein complex binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including cytoskeleton organization; homologous chromosome segregation; and spindle localization. Predicted to act upstream of or within double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; oogenesis; and spermatogenesis. Predicted to be integral component of membrane. Predicted to be part of meiotic nuclear membrane microtubule tethering complex. Predicted to be active in chromosome; meiotic spindle pole; and nuclear outer membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MAJIN: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region. Predicted to be integral component of nuclear inner membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MEI1: Predicted to be involved in meiosis I. Predicted to act upstream of or within gamete generation; meiotic spindle organization; and meiotic telomere clustering. Implicated in gestational trophoblastic neoplasm. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MEI4: Predicted to be involved in gamete generation and meiosis I cell cycle process. Predicted to be active in lateral element. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MEIKIN: Predicted to be involved in meiotic chromosome segregation. Predicted to be located in kinetochore. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MEIOB: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity; single-stranded DNA 3'-5' exodeoxyribonuclease activity; and single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in double-strand break repair via homologous recombination; fertilization; and meiotic nuclear division. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Implicated in spermatogenic failure 22. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MEIOC: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including gamete generation; germline cell cycle switching, mitotic to meiotic cell cycle; and mRNA stabilization. Predicted to be active in cytoplasm and nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
MND1: The product of the MND1 gene associates with HOP2 (MIM 608665) to form a stable heterodimeric complex that binds DNA and stimulates the recombinase activity of RAD51 (MIM 179617) and DMC1 (MIM 602721) (Chi et al., 2007 [PubMed 17639080]). Both the MND1 and HOP2 genes are indispensable for meiotic recombination.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
MSH4: This gene encodes a member of the DNA mismatch repair mutS family. This member is a meiosis-specific protein that is not involved in DNA mismatch correction, but is required for reciprocal recombination and proper segregation of homologous chromosomes at meiosis I. This protein and MSH5 form a heterodimer which binds uniquely to a Holliday Junction and its developmental progenitor, thus provoking ADP-ATP exchange, and stabilizing the interaction between parental chromosomes during meiosis double-stranded break repair. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]
MSH5: This gene encodes a member of the mutS family of proteins that are involved in DNA mismatch repair and meiotic recombination. This protein is similar to a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein that participates in segregation fidelity and crossing-over events during meiosis. This protein plays a role in promoting ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis. This protein forms hetero-oligomers with another member of this family, mutS homolog 4. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to various human diseases, including IgA deficiency, common variable immunodeficiency, and premature ovarian failure. Alternative splicing results multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream chromosome 6 open reading frame 26 (C6orf26) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]
MUS81: This gene encodes a structure-specific endonuclease which belongs to the XPF/MUS81 endonuclease family and plays a critical role in the resolution of recombination intermediates during DNA repair after inter-strand cross-links, replication fork collapse, and DNA double-strand breaks. The encoded protein associates with one of two closely related essential meiotic endonuclease proteins (EME1 or EME2) to form a complex that processes DNA secondary structures. It contains an N-terminal DEAH helicase domain, an excision repair cross complementation group 4 (ERCC4) endonuclease domain, and two tandem C-terminal helix-hairpin-helix domains. Mice with a homozygous knockout of the orthologous gene have significant meiotic defects including the failure to repair a subset of DNA double strand breaks. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2017]
PSMC3IP: This gene encodes a protein that functions in meiotic recombination. It is a subunit of the PSMC3IP/MND1 complex, which interacts with PSMC3/TBP1 to stimulate DMC1- and RAD51-mediated strand exchange during meiosis. The protein encoded by this gene can also co-activate ligand-driven transcription mediated by estrogen, androgen, glucocorticoid, progesterone, and thyroid nuclear receptors. Mutations in this gene cause XX female gonadal dysgenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]
PTTG1: The encoded protein is a homolog of yeast securin proteins, which prevent separins from promoting sister chromatid separation. It is an anaphase-promoting complex (APC) substrate that associates with a separin until activation of the APC. The gene product has transforming activity in vitro and tumorigenic activity in vivo, and the gene is highly expressed in various tumors. The gene product contains 2 PXXP motifs, which are required for its transforming and tumorigenic activities, as well as for its stimulation of basic fibroblast growth factor expression. It also contains a destruction box (D box) that is required for its degradation by the APC. The acidic C-terminal region of the encoded protein can act as a transactivation domain. The gene product is mainly a cytosolic protein, although it partially localizes in the nucleus. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]
PTTG2: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome segregation and negative regulation of mitotic sister chromatid separation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
PTTG3P: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome segregation and negative regulation of mitotic sister chromatid separation. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to be active in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
RAD51: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ssDNA-binding protein RPA and RAD52, and it is thought to play roles in homologous pairing and strand transfer of DNA. This protein is also found to interact with BRCA1 and BRCA2, which may be important for the cellular response to DNA damage. BRCA2 is shown to regulate both the intracellular localization and DNA-binding ability of this protein. Loss of these controls following BRCA2 inactivation may be a key event leading to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]
RAD51C: This gene is a member of the RAD51 family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51 and are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein can interact with other RAD51 paralogs and is reported to be important for Holliday junction resolution. Mutations in this gene are associated with Fanconi anemia-like syndrome. This gene is one of four localized to a region of chromosome 17q23 where amplification occurs frequently in breast tumors. Overexpression of the four genes during amplification has been observed and suggests a possible role in tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
RAD51D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, which are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein forms a complex with several other members of the RAD51 family, including RAD51L1, RAD51L2, and XRCC2. The protein complex formed with this protein has been shown to catalyze homologous pairing between single- and double-stranded DNA, and is thought to play a role in the early stage of recombinational repair of DNA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream ring finger and FYVE-like domain containing 1 (RFFL) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]
RAD54B: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily. It shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD54 and RDH54, both of which are involved in homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein binds to double-stranded DNA, and displays ATPase activity in the presence of DNA. This gene is highly expressed in testis and spleen, which suggests active roles in meiotic and mitotic recombination. Homozygous mutations of this gene were observed in primary lymphoma and colon cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
RAD54L: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, a protein known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein has been shown to play a role in homologous recombination related repair of DNA double-strand breaks. The binding of this protein to double-strand DNA induces a DNA topological change, which is thought to facilitate homologous DNA paring, and stimulate DNA recombination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]
RMI1: RMI1 is a component of protein complexes that limit DNA crossover formation via the dissolution of double Holliday junctions (Raynard et al., 2006 [PubMed 16595695]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]
RNF212: This gene encodes a RING finger protein that may function as a ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein may be involved in meiotic recombination. This gene is located within a linkage disequilibrium block and polymorphisms in this gene may influence recombination rates. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]
RNF212B: Predicted to enable SUMO transferase activity. Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and protein sumoylation. Predicted to be active in synaptonemal complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SHOC1: Enables single-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in resolution of meiotic recombination intermediates. Predicted to be located in chromosome. Predicted to be active in condensed nuclear chromosome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SLX4: This gene encodes a protein that functions as an assembly component of multiple structure-specific endonucleases. These endonuclease complexes are required for repair of specific types of DNA lesions and critical for cellular responses to replication fork failure. Mutations in this gene were found in patients with Fanconi anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]
SPO11: Meiotic recombination and chromosome segregation require the formation of double-strand breaks (DSBs) in paired chromosome homologs. During meiosis in yeast, a meiotic recombination protein is covalently-linked to the 5' end of DSBs and is essential for the formation of DSBs. The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence and conserved features to the yeast meiotic recombination protein. The encoded protein belongs to the TOP6A protein family. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only two of them have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
SYCE3: Predicted to be involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination; spermatogenesis; and synaptonemal complex assembly. Predicted to act upstream of or within positive regulation of apoptotic process. Predicted to be located in chromosome and nucleus. Predicted to be active in central element. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
SYCP1: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in protein homotetramerization. Predicted to be located in synaptonemal complex. Predicted to be active in central element; male germ cell nucleus; and transverse filament. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
TERB1: Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region and nuclear inner membrane. Predicted to colocalize with shelterin complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
TERB2: Predicted to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis and meiotic attachment of telomere to nuclear envelope. Predicted to be located in chromosome, telomeric region. Predicted to be active in nuclear inner membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]
TEX11: This gene is X-linked and is expressed in only male germ cells. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TEX12: This gene is similar to a mouse gene that is expressed in the testis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]
TEX15: This gene encodes a protein that is required for DNA double-strand break repair, chromosome synapsis, and meiotic recombination in spermatocytes. Male mice with a knockout of the orthologous gene are viable but sterile. Loss-of-function mutations in the orthologous mouse gene cause early meiotic arrest in spermatocytes, before the mid-pachytene stage. Naturally occurring mutations in this gene are associated with nonobstructive azoospermia. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2017]
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, alpha, is localized to chromosome 17 and the beta gene is localized to chromosome 3. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]
TOP2B: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, beta, is localized to chromosome 3 and the alpha form is localized to chromosome 17. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]
TRIP13: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with thyroid hormone receptors, also known as hormone-dependent transcription factors. The gene product interacts specifically with the ligand binding domain. This gene is one of several that may play a role in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]
////
ABL1: This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion, differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negatively regulated by its SH3 domain, whereby deletion of the region encoding this domain results in an oncogene. The ubiquitously expressed protein has DNA-binding activity that is regulated by CDC2-mediated phosphorylation, suggesting a cell cycle function. This gene has been found fused to a variety of translocation partner genes in various leukemias...
ARMC5: This gene encodes a member of the ARM (armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeat) superfamily. The ARM repeat is a tandemly repeated sequence motif with approximately 40 amino acid long. This repeat is implicated in mediating protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein contains seven ARM repeats. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hype...
BAX: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. The association and the ratio of BAX to BCL2 also determines survival or death of a cell following an apoptotic stimulus. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in m...
BTN3A1: The butyrophilin (BTN) genes are a group of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-associated genes that encode type I membrane proteins with 2 extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig) domains and an intracellular B30.2 (PRYSPRY) domain. Three subfamilies of human BTN genes are located in the MHC class I region: the single-copy BTN1A1 gene (MIM 601610) and the BTN2 (e...
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell recognition; positive regulation of cytokine production; and susceptibility to natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity. Located in plasma membrane. Implicat...
CARD11: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family, a class of proteins that functions as molecular scaffolds for the assembly of multiprotein complexes at specialized regions of the plasma membrane. This protein is also a member of the CARD protein family, which is defined by carrying a characteristic caspase-associated recruitment domain (CARD). This protein has a domain structure similar to that of CARD14 protein. The CARD domains of both protei...
CBLB: This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which promotes proteosome-mediated protein degradation by transferring ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme to a substrate. The encoded protein is involved in the regulation of immune response by limiting T-cell receptor, B-cell receptor, and high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor activation. Studies in mouse suggest that this gene is involved in antifungal host defense and tha...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activtiy is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved...
CD151: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane 4 superfamily proteins. It is involved in cellular proce...
CD28: The protein encoded by this gene is essential for T-cell proliferation and survival, cytokine production, and T-helper type-2 development. Several alternatively spliced transcri...
CD3E: The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-epsilon polypeptide, which together with CD3-gamma, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster...
CLEC4G: This gene encodes a glycan-binding receptor and member of the C-type lectin family which plays a role in the immune response. C-type lectin receptors are pattern recognition receptors located on immune cells that play a role in the recognition and uptake of both self and non-self glycoproteins as well as mediating cell adhesion, glycoprotein clearance, and cell signaling functions. This gene's protein binds complex-type N-glycans of the viral envelope proteins of Ebola virus, West Nile filovirus, and SARS coronavirus, but not HIV or hepatitis C virus. In mouse, this p...
CORO1A: This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progress...
CRTAM: The CRTAM gene is upregulated in CD4 (see MIM 186940)-positive and CD8 (see CD8A; MIM 186910)-positive T cells and encodes a type I transmembrane protein with ...
CTPS1: This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the catalytic conversion of UTP (uridine triphosphate) to CTP (cytidine triphospate). This reaction is an important step in the biosynthesis of phospholipids and nucleic acids. Activity of this proten is important in the immune system, and los...
DLG1: This gene encodes a multi-domain scaffolding protein that is required for normal development. This protein may have a role in septate junction formation, signal transduction, cell proliferation, synaptogenesis and lymphocyte activation. A multitude of transcript variants deriving from alternative splicing and the use of multiple alternate promoter have bee...
DOCK2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDM protein family. It is specifically expressed in hematopoietic cells and is predominantly expressed in peripheral blood leukocytes. The protein is involved in remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton required for lymphocyte migration in response to chemokine signaling. It activates members of the Rho family of GTPases, for example RAC1 and RAC2, by acting as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) to exc...
DOCK8: This gene encodes a member of the DOCK180 family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors interact with Rho GTPases and are components of intracellular signaling networks. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal recessive fo...
EBI3: This gene was identified by its induced expression in B lymphocytes in response Epstein-Barr virus infection. It encodes a secreted glycoprotein belonging to the hematopoietin receptor family, and heterodimerizes with a 28 kDa protein to form interleukin 27 (IL...
EFNB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and a ligand of Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinases. It may play a role in cell adhesion and func...
ELF4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator that binds and activates the promoters of the CSF2, IL3, IL8, and PRF1 genes. The encoded protein is involved in natural killer cell development and function, innate immunity, and induction of ce...
ERBB2: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein has no ligand binding domain of its own and therefore cannot bind growth factors. However, it does bind tightly to other ligand-bound EGF receptor family members to form a heterodimer, stabilizing ligand binding and enhancing kinase-mediated activation of downstream signalling pathways, such as those involving mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. Allelic variations at amino acid positions 654 and 655 of isoform a (positions 624 and 625 of isoform b) have been reported, with the...
FKBP1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It is highly similar to the FK506-binding protein 1A. Its physiologic...
FOXP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the forkhead/winged-helix family of transcriptional regulators. Defects in this gene are the cause of immunodeficiency polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome (IPEX), also known as X-linked autoimmunity-i...
FYN: This gene is a member of the protein-tyrosine kinase oncogene family. It encodes a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase that has been implicated in the control of cell growth. The protein associates with the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and i...
GPAM: This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme which prefers saturated fatty acids as its substrate for the synthesis of glycerolipids. This metabolic pathway's first step is catalyzed by the encoded enzyme. Two forms for this enzyme exist, one in the mitochondria an...
HES1: This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors. It is a transcriptional repressor of genes that require a bHLH protein for their transcription. The protein has a particular type of basic domain ...
IDO1: This gene encodes indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) - a heme enzyme that catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in tryptophan catabolism to N-formyl-kynurenine. This enzyme acts on multiple tryptophan substrates including D-tryptophan, L-tryptophan, 5-hydroxy-tryptophan, tryptamine, and serotonin. This enzyme is thought to play a role in a variety of pathophysiological processes such as antimicrobial and antitumor defense, neuropathology, imm...
IL12B: This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 40 kD cytokine receptor like subunit encoded by this gene, and a 35 kD subunit encoded by IL12A. This cytokine is expressed by activated macrophages that serve as an essential inducer of Th1 cells development. This cytokine has been found to be important for sustaining a sufficient number of memory/effector Th1 cells to mediate long-term protection to an intracellular pathogen. Overexpress...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T and natural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine 2 share many biological activities. They are found to bind common hematopoietin receptor subunits, and may compete for the same receptor, and thus negatively regulate each other's activity. The number of CD8+ memory cells is shown to be controlled by a balance between this cytokine and IL2. This cytokine induces the activation of JAK kinases, as well as the phosphorylation and activation of transcription activators STAT3, STAT5, and STA...
IL2: This gene is a member of the interleukin 2 (IL2) cytokine subfamily which includes IL4, IL7, IL9, IL15, IL21, erythropoietin, and thrombopoietin. The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine produced by activated CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, that is important for the proliferation of T and B lymphocytes. The receptor of this cytokine (IL2R) is a heterotrimeric protein complex whose gamma chain is also shared by IL4 and IL7. The expression of this gene in mature thymocytes is monoallelic, which represents an...
IL20RB: IL20RB and IL20RA (MIM 605620) form a heterodimeric receptor for interleukin-20 (IL20; MIM 605619) (Blumberg...
IL23A: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterodimeric cytokine interleukin 23 (IL23). IL23 is composed of this protein and the p40 subunit of interleukin 12 (IL12B). The receptor of IL23 is formed by the beta 1 subunit of IL12 (IL12RB1) and an IL23 specific subunit, IL23R. Both IL23 and IL12 can activate the transcription activator STAT4, and stim...
IL2RA: The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains, together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinity IL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor, while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a medium-affinity receptor. Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated and determined to result from extracellular proteolyisis. Alternately-spliced IL2RA mRNAs have been isolated, but the significance of each is presently unknown. Mutations in this gene are associated with interleukin 2 receptor alpha deficiency. Patients with severe Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-1...
ITCH: This gene encodes a member of the Nedd4 family of HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases. HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases transfer ubiquitin from E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes to protein substrates, thus targeting specific proteins for lysosomal degradation. The encoded protein plays a role in multiple cellular processes including erythroid and lymphoid cell differentiation and the regulation of immu...
KITLG: This gene encodes the ligand of the tyrosine-kinase receptor encoded by the KIT locus. This ligand is a pleiotropic factor that acts in utero in germ cell and neural cell development, and hematopoiesis, all believed to reflect a role in cell migration. In adults, it functions pleiotropically, while mos...
LILRB1: This gene is a member of the leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor (LIR) family, which is found in a gene cluster at chromosomal region 19q13.4. The encoded protein belongs to the subfamily B class of LIR receptors which contain two or four extracellular immunoglobulin domains, a transmembrane domain, and two to four cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motifs (ITIMs). The receptor is expressed on immune cells where it binds to MHC class I molecules on antigen-presenting cells and transduces a negative si...
LIPA: This gene encodes lipase A, the lysosomal acid lipase (also known as cholesterol ester hydrolase). This enzyme functions in the lysosome to catalyze the hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. Mutations in this gene can result in Wolman diseas...
LMBR1L: Enables transmembrane signaling receptor activity. Involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis and signal transduction. Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane and plasma membr...
MALT1: This gene encodes a caspase-like protease that plays a role in BCL10-induced activation of NF-kappaB. The protein is a component of the CARMA1-BCL10-MALT1 (CBM) signalosome that triggers NF-kappaB signaling and lymphoctye activation following antigen-receptor stimulation. Mutations in this gene result in immunodeficiency 12 (IMD12). This gene has been found to be recurrently rearranged in chromosomal translocations with other genes in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas, including a t(11;18)(q21;q21) translocation with the bacu...
MSN: Moesin (for membrane-organizing extension spike protein) is a member of the ERM family which includes ezrin and radixin. ERM proteins appear to function as cross-linkers between plasma membranes and actin-based cytoskeletons. Moesin is localized to filopodia...
NCSTN: This gene encodes a type I transmembrane glycoprotein that is an integral component of the multimeric gamma-secretase complex. The encoded protein cleaves integral membrane proteins, including Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein, and may be a stabilizing cofactor required for gamma-secretase complex assembly. The cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein yields amyloid beta peptide, the main component of the neuritic plaque and the hallmark lesion in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease; however, the nature of the encoded protein's role in Alzheimer's diseas...
NDFIP1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a small group of evolutionarily conserved proteins with three transmembrane domains. It is a potential target for ubiquitination by the Nedd4 family of proteins...
P2RX7: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel and is responsible for ATP-dependent lysis of macrophages through the formation of membrane pores permeable to large molecules. Activation of this nuclear receptor by ATP in the cytoplasm may be a mechanism by which cellular acti...
PDE5A: This gene encodes a cGMP-binding, cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase, a member of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. This phosphodiesterase specifically hydrolyzes cGMP to 5'-GMP. It is involved in the regulation of intracellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and is important for smooth mus...
PELI1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of necroptotic process; protein polyubiquitination; and response to lipopol...
PIK3CG: Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate inositol lipids and are involved in the immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a class I catalytic subunit of PI3K. Like other class I catalytic subunits (p110-alpha p110-beta, and p110-delta), the encoded protein binds a p85 regulatory subunit to form PI3K. This gene is located in a co...
PPP3CB: Enables several functions, including calmodulin binding activity; calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase activity; and protein phosphatase 2B binding activity. Involved in calcineurin-NFAT signaling cascade; positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II; and protein dephosphorylation. Located in cytoplasm. Pa...
PRDX2: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein plays an antioxidant protective role in cells, and it may contribute to the antiviral activity of CD8(+) T-cells. The crystal structure of this protein has been resolved to 2.7 angstroms. This protein prevents hemolytic anemia from oxidative stress by stabilizing hemoglobin, thus making this gene a ...
PRKCQ: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. It is a calc...
PSMB10: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome ...
PTPN6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. N-terminal part of this PTP contains two tandem Src homolog (SH2) domains, which act as protein phospho-tyrosine binding domains, and mediate the interaction of this PTP with its substrates. This PTP is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells, and functions as an important regulator of multiple ...
PTPRC: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitosis, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus is classified as a receptor type PTP. This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling. It functions through either direct interaction with components of the antigen recept...
RASGRP1: This gene is a member of a family of genes characterized by the presence of a Ras superfamily guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domain. It functions as a diacylglycerol (DAG)-regulated nucleotide exchange factor specifically activating Ras through the exchange of bound GDP for GTP. It activates the Erk/MAP kinase cascade and regulates T-cells and B-cells development, homeostasis and differentiation. Alternatively s...
RC3H1: This gene encodes a protein containing RING-type and C3H1-type zinc finger motifs. The encoded protein recognizes and binds to a constitutive decay element (CDE) in the 3' UTR of mRNAs, leading to mRNA deaden...
RC3H2: Enables nucleic acid binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in protein polyubiquitination. Located in cell surface; intracellular memb...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein contains a C-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD), and is a component of signaling complexes in both the innate and...
RPS6: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a cytoplasmic ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S6E family of ribosomal proteins. It is the major substrate of protein kinases in the ribosome, with subsets of five C-terminal serine residues phosphorylated by different protein kinases. Phosphorylation is induced by a wide range of stimuli, including growth factors, tumor-promoting agents, and m...
SASH3: The protein encoded by this gene contains a Src homology-3 (SH3) domain and a sterile alpha motif (SAM), both of which are found in proteins involved in cell signaling. This...
SCGB1A1: This gene encodes a member of the secretoglobin family of small secreted proteins. The encoded protein has been implicated in numerous functions including anti-inflammation, inhibition of phospholipase A2 and the sequesteri...
SELENOK: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the selenoprotein K family. It is a transmembrane protein that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and is involved in ER-associated degradation (ERAD) of misfolded, glycosylated proteins. It also has a role in the protection of cells from ER stress-induced apoptosis. Knockout studies in mice show the importance of this gene in promoting Ca(2+) flux in immune cells and mounting effective immune response. This protein is a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec). Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals tran...
SH2D2A: This gene encodes an adaptor protein thought to function in T-cell signal transduction. A related protein in mouse is responsible for the activation of lymphocyte-specific protein-tyrosine kinase and functions...
SHH: This gene encodes a protein that is instrumental in patterning the early embryo. It has been implicated as the key inductive signal in patterning of the ventral neural tube, the anterior-posterior limb axis, and the ventral somites. Of three human proteins showing sequence and functional similarity to the sonic hedgehog protein of Drosophila, this protein is the most similar. The protein is made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; the N-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while the C-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly, the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminal product, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventing it from freely diffusing throughout the developing embryo. Defects in this protein or in its signalling pathway are a cause of holoprosencephaly (HPE), a disorder in which the developing forebrain fails to correctly separate into rig...
SLC11A1: This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 11 (proton-coupled divalent metal ion transporters) family and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein. The protein functions as a divalent transition metal (iron and manganese) transporter involved in iron metabolism and host resistance to certain pathogens. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and leprosy, and inf...
STAT5B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein mediates the signal transduction triggered by various cell ligands, such as IL2, IL4, CSF1, and different growth hormones. It has been shown to be involved in diverse biological processes, such as TCR signaling, apoptosis, adult mammary g...
TNFRSF4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor has been shown to activate NF-kappaB through its interaction with adaptor proteins TRAF2 and TRAF5. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this receptor promotes the expression of apoptosis inhibitors BCL2 and BCL2lL1/BCL2-XL, and thus suppresses apopto...
TNFSF13B: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for receptors TNFRSF13B/TACI, TNFRSF17/BCMA, and TNFRSF13C/BAFFR. This cytokine is expressed in B cell lineage cells, and acts as a potent B cell activator. It has been also shown to play an imp...
TNFSF14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is a ligand for TNFRSF14, which is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, and which is also known as a herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM). This protein may function as a costimulatory factor for the activation of lymphoid cells and as a deterrent to infection by herpesvirus. This protein has been shown to stimulate the proliferation of T cells, and tri...
TNFSF18: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for receptor TNFRSF18/AITR/GITR. It has been shown to modulate T lymphocyte survival in peripheral tissues. This cytokine is also found to b...
TP53: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene and the us...
TSPAN32: This gene, which is a member of the tetraspanin superfamily, is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragments located in the imprinted gene domain of chromosome 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian and breast cancers. This gene is located among several imprinted genes; however, this gene, as well as the tumor-suppressing subchromosomal transferable fragment ...
WNT4: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family, and is the first signaling molecule shown to influence the sex-determination cascade. It encodes a protein which shows 98% amino acid identity to the Wnt4 protein of mouse and rat. This gene and a nuclear receptor known to antagonize the testis-determining factor play a concerted r...
////
ABCA2: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20,White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellulareukaryotes. This protein is highly expressed in brain tissue and may playa role in macrophage lipid metab...
ACAT2: The product of this gene is an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism,and it encodes cytosolic acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. This gene shows complementaryoverlapping with the 3-prime region of the TCP1 gene in both mouse and human.These genes are encoded on opposite strands of DNA, as well as in oppositetranscriptional orientation. Alternatively spliced transcript varia...
ACSS2: This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the activationof acetate for use in lipid synthesis and energy generation. The protein actsas a monomer and produces acetyl-CoA from acetate in a reaction that requiresATP. Expression of this gene is regulated by sterol regulatory element-bindingproteins, transcription factors that activate genes required for the synthesisof cholesterol and unsaturated f...
ACTG1: Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various typesof cell motility and in maintenance of the cytoskeleton. Three main groupsof actin isoforms have been identified in vertebrate animals: alpha, beta,and gamma. The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituentof the contractile apparatus. The beta and gamma actins co-exist in most celltypes as components of the cytoskeleton and as mediators of internal cellmotility. Actin gamma 1, encoded by this gene, is a cytoplasmic actin foundin all cell types. Mutations in this gene are associated with DFNA20/26, asubtype of autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensori...
ADH4: This gene encodes class II alcohol dehydrogenase 4 pi subunit, whichis a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme familymetabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, otheraliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. ClassII alcohol dehydrogenase is a homodimer composed of 2 pi subunits. It exhibitsa high activity for oxidation of long-chain aliphatic alcohols and aromaticalcohols and is less sensitive to pyr...
ALCAM: This gene encodes activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM),also known as CD166 (cluster of differentiation 166), which is a member ofa subfamily of immunoglobulin receptors with five immunoglobulin-like domains(VVC2C2C2) in the extracellular domain. This protein binds to T-cell differentiationantigene CD6, and is implicated in the processes of cell adhesion and migration.Multiple alternatively ...
ALDOC: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-biphosphate aldolasegene family. Expressed specifically in the hippocampus and Purkinje cellsof the brain, the encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes thereversible aldol cleavage of fructose-1,6-biphosphate and fructose 1-phosphateto dihydroxyacetone phosphate and either gly...
ANTXR2: This gene encodes a receptor for anthrax toxin. The protein bindsto collagen IV and laminin, suggesting that it may be involved in extracellularmatrix adhesion. Mutations in this gene cause juvenile hyaline fibromatosisand infantile systemic hyalinosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding diffe...
ANXA13: This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of thiscalcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulationof cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. The specific functionof this gene has not yet been determined; however, it is associated with theplasma membrane of undifferentiated, proliferating endothelial cells and differentiatedvillus enterocytes. Alternatively s...
ANXA5: The Annexin 5 gene spans 29 kb containing 13 exons, and encodes a singletranscript of approximately 1.6 kb and a protein product with a molecularweight of about 35 kDa.The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the annexinfamily of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins some of which havebeen implicated in membrane-related events along exocytotic and endocytoticpathways. Annexin 5 is a phospholipase A2 and protein kinase C inhibitoryprotein with calcium channel activity and a potential role in cellular signaltransduction, inflammation, growth and differentiation. Annexin 5 has alsobeen described as placental anticoagulant protein I, vascular anticoagulant-alpha,endone...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcriptionfactor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcriptionfactors. This gene is induced by a variety of signals, including many of thoseencountered by cancer cells, and is involved in the complex process of cellularstress response. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoformshave been found for this gene. It is possible that alternative splicin...
ATF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase II transcription regulatoryregion sequence-specific DNA binding activity; and tubulin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including fat cell differentiation; regulationof cell cycle process; and regulation of transcription, DNA-templated. Loca...
ATXN2: This gene belongs to a group of genes that is associated with microsatellite-expansiondiseases, a class of neurological and neuromuscular disorders caused by expansionof short stretches of repetitive DNA. The protein encoded by this gene hastwo globular domains near the N-terminus, one of which contains a clathrin-mediatedtrans-Golgi signal and an endoplasmic reticulum exit signal. The encoded cytoplasmicprotein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane, is involvedin endocytosis, and modulates mTOR signals, modifying ribosomal translationand mitochondrial function. The N-terminal region of the protein containsa polyglutamine tract of 14-31 residues that can be expanded in the pathogenicstate to 32-200 residues. Intermediate length expansions of this tract increasesusceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, while long expansions ofthis tract result in spinocerebellar ataxia-2, an autosomal-dominantly inherited,neurodegenerative disorder. Genome-wide ...
AVPR1A: The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin.This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors whichincludes AVPR1B, V2R and OXT receptors. Its activity is mediated by G proteinswhich stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Thereceptor mediates cell contraction and proliferation, platelet ...
CBS: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze theconversion of homocysteine to cystathionine, the first step in the transsulfurationpathway. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by adenosyl-methionineand uses pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor. Defects in this gene can causecystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (CBSD), which can lead to homocystinuria.This gene is a major contributor to cellular hydrogen sulfide producti...
CD9: This gene encodes a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also knownas the tetraspanin family. Tetraspanins are cell surface glycoproteins withfour transmembrane domains that form multimeric complexes with other cellsurface proteins. The encoded protein functions in many cellular processesincluding differentiation, adhesion, and signal transduction, and expressionof this gene plays a cri...
CHKA: The major pathway for the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine occursvia the CDP-choline pathway. The protein encoded by this gene is the initialenzyme in the sequence and may play a regulatory role. The encoded proteinalso catalyzes the phosphorylation of ethanolamine. Two transcript variantsencoding di...
CLU: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can undersome stress conditions also be found in the cell cytosol. It has been suggestedto be involved in several basic biological events such as cell death, tumorprogression, and neurodegenerative disorders. Alternate splicing res...
CPEB2: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to cytoplasmic polyadenylationelement binding protein (CPEB), an mRNA-binding protein that regulates cytoplasmicpolyadenylation of mRNA as a trans factor in oogenesis and spermatogenesis.Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested a possible role of this proteinin transcriptionally inactive haploid spermatids. Alternatively spliced ...
CTNNB1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteinsthat constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creationand maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesionbetween cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton andmay be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causescells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, thisprotein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatouspolyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer(CRC), p...
CXCL16: Enables chemokine activity. Involved in several processes, includingpositive regulation of cell growth; response to interferon-gamma; and responseto tumor necrosis factor. Located in extracellular space. Biomarker of COVID-19and systemic scl...
CYP51A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze manyreactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroidsand other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein participates in the synthesisof cholesterol by catalyzing the removal of the 14alpha-methyl group fromlanosterol. Homologous genes are found in all three eukaryotic phyla, fungi,plants, and animals, suggesting that this is one of the oldest cytoc...
DHCR7: This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond inthe B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterolto cholesterol. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembraneprotein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and nuclear outermembrane. Mutations in this gene cause Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS);a syndrome that is metabolically characterized by reduced serum cholesterollevels and elevated serum 7-dehydrocholesterol levels and phenotypically characterizedby cognitive disability, facial dysmorphism, syndactyly of second and thirdtoes, and holoprosencephaly in severe cases to minimal physical abnormali...
EBP: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein of theendoplasmic reticulum. It is a high affinity binding protein for the antiischemicphenylalkylamine Ca2+ antagonist [3H]emopamil and the photoaffinity label[3H]azidopamil. It is similar to sigma receptors and may be a member of asuperfamily of high affinity drug-binding proteins in the endoplasmic reticulumof different tissues. This protein shares structural features with bacterialand eukaryontic drug transporting proteins. It has four putative transmembranesegments and contains two conserved glutamate residues which may be involvedin the transport of cationic amphiphilics. Another prominent feature of thisprotein is its high content of aromatic amino acid residues (>23%) in itstransmembrane segments. These aromatic amino acid residues have been...
ECH1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. Thegene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratasesof several species, particularly within a conserved domain characteristicof these proteins. The encoded protein, which contains a C-terminal peroxisomaltargeting sequence, localizes to the peroxisome. The rat ortholog, which localizesto the matrix of both the peroxisome and mitochondria, can isomerize 3-trans,5-cis-dienoyl-CoAto 2-trans,4-trans-dienoyl-CoA, indicating that it is a delta3,5-delta2,4-dienoyl-CoAisomerase. This enzyme functions in the a...
ERRFI1: ERRFI1 is a cytoplasmic protein whose expression is upregulated withcell growth (Wick et al., 1995 [PubMed 7641805]). It shares significant homologywith the protein product of rat gene-33, which is induced during cell stressand mediates cell signaling (Makkinje et al., 2000 [PubMed 10749885...
ETHE1: This gene encodes a member of the metallo beta-lactamase family ofiron-containing proteins involved in the mitochondrial sulfide oxidation pathway.The encoded protein catalyzes the oxidation of a persulfide substrate to sulfite.Certain mutations in this gene cause ethylmalonic encephalopathy, an infantilemetabolic disorder affecting the brain, gastrointestinal tract and peripheralvessels. Alternative spli...
FABP5: This gene encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in epidermalcells, and was first identified as being upregulated in psoriasis tissue.Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmicproteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. FABPsmay play roles in fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism. Polymorphismsin this gene are associated with type 2 ...
FADS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acidsthrough the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fattyacyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion products composed ofan N-terminal cytochrome b5-like domain and a C-terminal multiple membrane-spanningdesaturase portion, both of which are characterized by conserved histidinemotifs. This gene is clustered with family members at 11q12-q13.1; this clusteris thought to have arisen evolutionarily from gene duplication based on its...
FASN: The enzyme encoded by this gene is a multifunctional protein. Its mainfunction is to catalyze the synthesis of palmitate from acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA,in the presence of NADPH, into long-chain saturated fatty acids. In some cancercell lines, this protein has been found to be fused with estrogen receptor-alpha(ER-alpha), in which the N-terminus ...
FBXO6: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs(SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination.The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains,Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either differentprotein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The proteinencoded by this gene belongs to the Fbxs class, and its C-terminal ...
FDFT1: This gene encodes a membrane-associated enzyme located at a branchpoint in the mevalonate pathway. The encoded protein is the first specificenzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, catalyzing the dimerization of two moleculesof farnesyl diphosphate in a tw...
FDPS: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of geranylpyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate from isopentenyl pyrophosphate anddimethylallyl pyrophosphate. The resulting product, farnesyl pyrophosphate,is a key intermediate in cholesterol and sterol biosynthesis, a substratefor protein farnesylation and geranylgeranylation, and a ligand or agonistfor certain hormone receptors and growth receptors. Drugs that inhibit thisenzyme prevent the post-translational modifications of small GTPases and havebeen used to treat diseases related to bone resorption. Multiple pseudogeneshave been found o...
GLDC: Degradation of glycine is brought about by the glycine cleavage system,which is composed of four mitochondrial protein components: P protein (a pyridoxalphosphate-dependent glycine decarboxylase), H protein (a lipoic acid-containingprotein), T protein (a tetrahydrofolate-requiring enzyme), and L protein (alipoamide dehydrogenase). The protein encoded by this gene is the P protein,which binds to glycine and enables the methylamine group from glycine to betransferre...
GNAI1: Guanine nucleotide binding proteins are heterotrimeric signal-transducingmolecules consisting of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The alpha subunitbinds guanine nucleotide, can hydrolyze GTP, and can interact with other proteins.The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of an inhibitorycomplex. The encoded protein is part of a complex that responds to beta-adrenergicsignals by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Two...
GPX8: Enables peroxidase activity. Predicted to be involved in cellular responseto oxidative stress. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum lumen.[provided b...
GSTM2: Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase areencoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classesof the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have beenidentified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This geneencodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu classof enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, includingcarcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidativestress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class ofenzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are knownto be highly polymorphic. These...
GUSB: This gene encodes a hydrolase that degrades glycosaminoglycans, includingheparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and chondroitin-4,6-sulfate. The enzymeforms a homotetramer that is localized to the lysosome. Mutations in thisgene result in mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple transcript variants. There ...
HMGCR: HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesisand is regulated via a negative feedback mechanism mediated by sterols andnon-sterol metabolites derived from mevalonate, the product of the reactioncatalyzed by reductase. Normally in mammalian cells this enzyme is suppressedby cholesterol derived from the internalization and degradation of low densitylipoprotein (LDL) via the LDL receptor. Competitive inhibitors of the reductaseinduce the expression of LDL receptors in the liver, which in turn increasesthe catabolism of plasma LDL and lowers the plasma concentration of cholesterol,an important dete...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic process and farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process,mevalonate pathway. Predicted to be located in cytoplasm. Predicted to beactive in cy...
HSD17B7: HSD17B7 encodes an enzyme that functions both as a 17-beta-hydroxysteroiddehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.62) in the biosynthesis of sex steroids and as a 3-ketosteroidreductase (EC 1.1.1.270) in the biosynthesis of cholesterol (Marijanovic e...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversionof isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to its highly electrophilic isomer, dimethylallyldiphosphate (DMAPP), which are the substrates for the successive reactionthat results in the synthesis of farnesyl diphosphate and, ultimately, cholesterol.  Ithas been shown in peroxisomal deficiency diseases such as Zellweger syndromeand neonata...
JAG1: The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophiliajagged protein. Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, thelatter is involved in signaling processes. Mutations that alter the jagged1 protein cause Alagille syndrome. Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 hasal...
LDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specificligands. The encoded protein is normally bound at the cell membrane, whereit binds low density lipoprotein/cholesterol and is taken into the cell. Lysosomesrelease the cholesterol, which is made available for repression of microsomalenzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate-limitingstep in cholesterol synthesis. At the same time, a reciprocal stimulationof cholesterol ester synthesis takes place. Mutations in this gene cause ...
LGALS3: This gene encodes a member of the galectin family of carbohydratebinding proteins. Members of this protein family have an affinity for beta-galactosides.The encoded protein is characterized by an N-terminal proline-rich tandemrepeat domain and a single C-terminal carbohydrate recognition domain. Thisprotein can self-associate through the N-terminal domain allowing it to bindto multivalent saccharide ligands. This protein localizes to the extracellularmatrix, the cytoplasm and the nucleus. This protein plays a role in numerouscellular functions including apoptosis, innate immunity, cell adhesion andT-cell regulation. Th...
LGMN: This gene encodes a cysteine protease that has a strict specificityfor hydrolysis of asparaginyl bonds. This enzyme may be involved in the processingof bacterial peptides and endogenous proteins for MHC class II presentationin the lysosomal/endosomal systems. Enzyme activation is triggered by acidicpH and appears to be autocatalytic. Protein expression occurs after monocytesdifferentiate into dendritic cells. A fully mature, active enzyme is producedfollowing lipopolysaccharide expression in mature dendritic cells. Overexpressionof this gene may be associated with the majority of solid tumor types. Thisgene has a pseudogene on chromosome 13. Several alternatively spliced tra...
LPL: LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed in heart, muscle,and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodimer, and has the dual functionsof triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediatedlipoprotein uptake. Severe mutations that cause LPL deficiency result in typeI hyperlipoproteinemia, while less extreme mutations in L...
LSS: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of (S)-2,3oxidosqualene to lanosterol. The encoded protein is a member of the terpenecyclase/mutase family and catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis ofcholesterol, steroid hormones, and vitamin D. Alternative splicing resultsin multiple t...
MAL2: This gene encodes a multispan transmembrane protein belonging to theMAL proteolipid family. The protein is a component of lipid rafts and, inpolarized cells, it primarily localizes to endosomal structures beneath theapical membrane. It is required for transcytosis, an intracellular transportpathway used to deliver membrane-bound proteins and exo...
MVD: The enzyme mevalonate pyrophosphate decarboxylase catalyzes the conversionof mevalonate pyrophosphate into isopentenyl pyrophosphate in one of the earlysteps in cholesterol biosynthesis. It decarboxylates and dehydrates its subst...
MVK: This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme mevalonate kinase. Mevalonateis a key intermediate, and mevalonate kinase a key early enzyme, in isoprenoidand sterol synthesis. Mevalonate kinase deficiency caused by mutation of thisgene results in mevalonic aciduria, a disease characterized psychomotor retardation,failure to thrive, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia and recurrent febrile crises.Defects in this gene also cause hyperimmunoglobulinaemia D and periodic feversyndrome, a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of fever associatedwith lymphadenopathy, a...
NFIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator thatbinds as a homodimer to activating transcription factor (ATF) sites in manycellular and viral promoters. The encoded protein represses PER1 and PER2expression and therefore plays a role in the regulation of circadian rhythm.Three transcript variants encod...
NIBAN1: This gene encodes a member of the family with sequence similarity129 protein family. This gene is highly expressed in several cancer cellsand may serve as a prognostic marker for certain cancers. The encoded proteinmay play a role in regu...
NSDHL: The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the endoplasmic reticulumand is involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene are associatedwith CHILD syndrome, which is a X-linked dominant disorder of lipid metabolismwith disturbed cholesterol biosynthesis, and typically lethal in males. Alternativelyspliced transcript varia...
PCYT2: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of CDP-ethanolaminefrom CTP and phosphoethanolamine in the Kennedy pathway of phospholipid synthesis.Alternative splicing results in multiple ...
PDK3: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrialmultienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoAand CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylicacid (TCA) cycle, and thus is one of the major enzymes responsible for theregulation of glucose metabolism. The enzymatic activity of PDH is regulatedby a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle, and phosphorylation resultsin inactivation of PDH. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the threepyruvate dehydrogenase kinases that inhibits the PDH complex by phosphorylationof the E1 alpha subunit. This gene is predominantly expre...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surfaceplasminogen activation and localized degradation of the extracellular matrix.It binds both the proprotein and mature forms of urokinase plasminogen activatorand permits the activation of the receptor-bound pro-enzyme by plasmin. Theprotein lacks transmembrane or cytoplasmic domains and may be anchored tothe plasma membrane by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety followingcleavage of the nascent polypeptide near its carboxy-terminus. However, asoluble protein is also produced in some cell types. Alternative splicingresults in multipl...
PLSCR1: This gene encodes a phospholipid scramblase family member. The encodedprotein is involved in disruption of the asymmetrical distribution of phospholipidsbetween the inner and outer leaflets of the plasma membrane, resulting inexternalization of phosphatidylserine. This cell membrane disruption playsan important role in the blood coagulation cascade as well as macrophage clearingof apoptotic cells. The encoded protein has additionall...
PMVK: This gene encodes a peroxisomal enzyme that is a member of the galactokinase,homoserine kinase, mevalonate kinase, and phosphomevalonate kinase (GHMP)family of ATP-dependent enzymes. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversionof mevalonate 5-phosphate to mevalonate 5-diphosphate, which is the fifthstep in the mevalonate pathway of isoprenoid biosynthesis. Mutations in thisgene are linked to certain types of porokeratosis including disseminated supe...
PNRC1: Predicted to be active in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of GenomeRe...
PPARG: This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activatedreceptor (PPAR) subfamily of nuclear receptors. PPARs form heterodimers withretinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcriptionof various genes. Three subtypes of PPARs are known: PPAR-alpha, PPAR-delta,and PPAR-gamma. The protein encoded by this gene is PPAR-gamma and is a regulatorof adipocyte differentiation. Additionally, PPAR-gamma has been implicatedin the pathology of numerous diseases including obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosisa...
S100A11: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved inthe regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progressionand differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are locatedas a cluster on chromosome 1q21. This protein may function in motility, invasion,and tubulin polymerization. Chromosom...
SC5D: This gene encodes an enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. The encodedprotein catalyzes the conversion of lathosterol into 7-dehydrocholesterol.Mutations in this gene have been associated with lathosterolosis. Alternativelyspliced transcript variants encoding th...
SCD: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, primarilythe synthesis of oleic acid. The protein belongs to the fatty acid desaturasefamily and is an integral membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum.Transcripts of approximately 3.9 and 5.2 kb, differing only by alternativepolyadenlyation signals, have been detected. A gene encoding a similar enzymeis located on c...
SEMA3B: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-3 semaphorin/collapsinfamily, whose members function in growth cone guidance during neuronal development.This family member inhibits axonal extension and has been shown to act asa tumor suppressor by inducing apoptosis. Alternative splicing of this...
SQLE: Squalene epoxidase catalyzes the first oxygenation step in sterol biosynthesisand is thought to be one of the rate-limiting enzymes in this pat...
SREBF2: This gene encodes a member of the a ubiquitously expressed transcriptionfactor that controls cholesterol homeostasis by regulating transcription ofsterol-regulated genes. The encoded protein contains a basic helix-loop-helix-leucinezipper (bHLH-Zip) domain and binds the sterol regulatory element 1 motif.Alternate ...
STARD4: Cholesterol homeostasis is regulated, at least in part, by sterolregulatory element (SRE)-binding proteins (e.g., SREBP1; MIM 184756) and byliver X receptors (e.g., LXRA; MIM 602423). Upon sterol depletion, LXRs areinactive and SREBPs are cleaved, after which they bind promoter SREs and activategenes involved in cholesterol biosynthesis and uptake. Sterol transport ismediated by vesicles or by soluble protein carriers, such as steroidogenicacute regulatory protein (STAR; MIM 600617). STAR is homologous to a familyof proteins containing a 200- to 210...
STX5: This gene encodes a member of the syntaxin or t-SNARE (target-SNAP receptor)family. These proteins are found on cell membranes and serve as the targetsfor v-SNAREs (vesicle-SNAP receptors), permitting specific synaptic vesicledocking and fusion. The encoded protein regulates endoplasmic reticulum toGolgi transport and plays a critical role in autophagy. Autoantibodies targetingthe encoded protein may be a diagnostic marker for endometriosis. Alternativelysp...
TM7SF2: Enables delta14-sterol reductase activity. Involved in cholesterolbiosynthetic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. Part of receptor complex.[provided b...
TMEM97: TMEM97 is a conserved integral membrane protein that plays a rolein controlling cellular cholesterol levels (Bartz et al., 2009 [PubMed 195...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regulation of wound healing. Predicted to be located in cell surfaceand ruffle. Predicted to be active in plasma membrane. [...
TP53INP1: Predicted to enable antioxidant activity. Involved in autophagiccell death; positive regulation of autophagy; and positive regulation of transcription,DNA-templated. Located in autophagosome; cytosol; and nucleus...
TRIB3: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative protein kinase thatis induced by the transcription factor NF-kappaB. The encoded protein is anegative regulator of NF-kappaB and can also sensitize cells to TNF- and TRAIL-inducedapoptosis. In addition, this protein can negatively regulate the cell survivalserine-threonine kinase AKT1. Differential promoter usage a...
////
A2M: The protein encoded by this gene is a protease inhibitor and cytokinetransporter. It uses a bait-and-trap mechanism to inhibit a broad spectrumof proteases, including trypsin, thrombin and collagenase. It can also inhibitinflammatory cytokines, and it thus disrupts inflammatory cascades. Mutationsin this gene are a cause of alpha-2...
ACVR1B: This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimericgrowth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growthfactor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins.Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinas...
ACVRL1: This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-betasuperfamily of ligands. It shares with other type I receptors a high degreeof similarity in serine-threonine kinase subdomains, a glycine- and serine-richregion (called the GS domain) preceding the kinase domain, and a short C-terminaltail. The encoded protein, sometimes te...
BAK1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family.BCL2 family members form oligomers or heterodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Thisprotein localizes to mitochondria, and functions to induce apoptosis. It in...
CBL: This gene is a proto-oncogene that encodes a RING finger E3 ubiquitinligase. The encoded protein is one of the enzymes required for targeting substratesfor degradation by the proteasome. This protein mediates the transfer of ubiquitinfrom ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) to specific substrates. This proteinalso contains an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain that allows itto interact with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates...
CCL7: This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokinewhich attracts macrophages during inflammation and metastasis. It is a memberof the C-C subfamily of chemokines which are characterized by having two adjacentcysteine residues. Th...
CCR1: This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, whichis predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupledreceptors. The ligands of this receptor include macrophage inflammatory protein1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), regulated on activation normal T expressed and secretedprotein (RANTES), monocyte chemoattractant protein 3 (MCP-3), and myeloidprogenitor inhibitory factor-1 (MPIF-1). Chemokines and their receptors mediate...
CD14: The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentiallyexpressed on monocytes/macrophages. It cooperates with other proteins to mediatethe innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide, and to viruses.This gene has been identified a...
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein ofthe platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in plateletsand various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteinsinvolved in a variety of adhesive processes, this protein may have importantfunctions as a cell adhesion molecule. It binds to collagen, thrombospondin,anionic phospholipids and ox...
CD38: The protein encoded by this gene is a non-lineage-restricted, type IItransmembrane glycoprotein that synthesizes and hydrolyzes cyclic adenosine5''-diphosphate-ribose, an intracellular calcium ion mobilizing messenger.The release of soluble protein and the ability of membrane-bound protein tobecome internalized indicate both extracellular and intracellular functionsfor the protein. This protein has an N-terminal cytoplasmic tail,...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involvedin cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor forhyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands, such as osteopontin,collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). This protein participatesin a wide variety of cellular functions including lymphocyte activation, recirculationand homing, hemato...
CD9: This gene encodes a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also knownas the tetraspanin family. Tetraspanins are cell surface glycoproteins withfour transmembrane domains that form multimeric complexes with other cellsurface proteins. The encoded pr...
CNTFR: This gene encodes a member of the type 1 cytokine receptor family.The encoded protein is the ligand-specific component of a tripartite receptorfor ciliary neurotrophic factor, which plays a critical role in neuronal cellsurvival, differentiation and gene expression. Binding of ciliary neurotrophicfactor to the encoded protein recruits the transmembrane componen...
CRLF2: This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family.The encoded protein is a receptor for thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP).Together with the interleukin 7 receptor (IL7R), the encoded protein and TSLPactivate STAT3, STAT5, and JAK2 pathways, which control processes such ascell proliferation and development of the hematopoietic system. Rearr...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the proteinis found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought tobe...
CSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The activeform of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This gene hasbeen localized to a cluster of related genes at chromosome region 5q31, whichis known to be associated with interstitial deletions in the 5q- syndromeand acute myelogenous leukemia. Other genes in...
CSF2RA: The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimericreceptor for colony stimulating factor 2, a cytokine which controls the production,differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The encodedprotein is a member of the cytokine family of receptors...
CSF2RB: The protein encoded by this gene is the common beta chain of the highaffinity receptor for IL-3, IL-5 and CSF. Defects in...
CSF3R: The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulatingfactor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and functionof granulocytes. The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokinereceptors, may also function...
CXCL1: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines.The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that signals through the G-proteincoupled receptor, CXC receptor 2. This protein plays a role in inflammationand as a chemoattractant for neutrophils. Aberrant expression of this proteinis ass...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily andligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding of this protein to CXCR3 results inpleiotropic effects, including stimulation of monocytes, natural kille...
CXCL11: Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostlybasic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of varioustypes of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane,G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundamental roles in thedevelopment, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they haveeffects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cellsinvolved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. Chemokines are divided into 2 majorsubfamilies, CXC a...
CXCL13: B lymphocyte chemoattractant, independently cloned and named Angie,is an antimicrobial peptide and CXC chemokine strongly expressed in the folliclesof the spleen, lymph nodes, and Peyer''s patches. It preferentially promotesthe migration of B lymphocytes (compare...
CXCL3: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines.The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that signals through the G-prote...
CXCL9: This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodessecreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes.The protein encoded is thought to be in...
DNTT: This gene is a member of the DNA polymerase type-X family and encodesa template-independent DNA polymerase that catalyzes the addition of deoxynucleotidesto the 3''-hydroxyl terminus of oligonucleotide primers. In vivo, the encodedprotein is expressed in a restricted population of normal and malignant pre-Band pre-T lymphocytes during early...
EBI3: This gene was identified by its induced expression in B lymphocytesin response Epstein-Barr virus infection. It encodes a secreted glycoproteinbelonging to the hematopoietin receptor family, and heterodimer...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a centralrole in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has beenimplicated in the pathogenesis of various malignancies and diseases of theimmune system. The interaction of this receptor with its ligand allows theformation of a death-inducing signaling complex that includes Fas-associateddeath domain protein (FADD), caspase 8, and caspase 10. The autoproteolyticprocessing of the caspases in the complex ...
GRB2: The protein encoded by this gene binds the epidermal growth factor receptorand contains one SH2 domain and two SH3 domains. Its two SH3 domains directcomplex formation with proline-rich regions of other proteins, and its SH2domain binds tyrosine phosphorylated ...
HAX1: The protein encoded by this gene is known to associate with hematopoieticcell-specific Lyn substrate 1, a substrate of Src family tyrosine kinases.It also interacts with the product of the polycystic kidney disease 2 gene,mutations in which are associated with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidneydisease, and with the F-actin-binding protein, cortactin. It was earlier thought...
HMOX1: Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves hemeto form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bilirubin by biliverdinreductase, and carbon monoxide, a putative neurotransmitter. Heme oxygenaseactivity is induced by it...
IFNAR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein thatforms one of the two chains of a receptor for interferons alpha and beta.Binding and activation of the receptor stimulates Janus protein kinases...
IFNGR1: This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of thegamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimerof IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. A genetic variation in IFNGR1 is associated with susceptibilityto Hel...
IFNGR2: This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of thegamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimerof IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. Defects in IFNGR2 are a cause of mendelian susceptibilityto mycobacterial ...
IL10RB: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytokine receptorfamily. It is an accessory chain essential for the active interleukin 10 receptorcomplex. Coexpression of this and IL10RA proteins has been shown to be requiredfor IL10-in...
IL12RB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane proteinthat belongs to the hemopoietin receptor superfamily. This protein binds tointerleukine 12 (IL12) with a low affinity, and is thought to be a part ofIL12 receptor complex. This protein forms a disulfide-linked oligomer, whichis required for its IL12 binding activity. The coexpression of this and IL12RB2proteins was show...
IL13RA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the interleukin13 receptor. This subunit forms a receptor complex with IL4 receptor alpha,a subunit shared by IL13 and IL4 receptors. This subunit serves as a primaryIL13-binding subunit of the IL13 receptor, and ...
IL15RA: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that specifically binds interleukin15 (IL15) with high affinity. The receptors of IL15 and IL2 share two subunits,IL2R beta and IL2R gamma. This forms the basis of many overlapping biologicalactivities of IL15 and IL2. The protein encoded by this gene is structurallyrelated to IL2R alpha, an additional IL2-specific alpha subunit necessaryfor high affinity IL2 bi...
IL17RA: Interleukin 17A (IL17A) is a proinflammatory cytokine secreted byactivated T-lymphocytes. It is a potent inducer of the maturation of CD34-positivehematopoietic precursors into neutrophils. The transmembrane protein encodedby this gene (interleukin 17A receptor; IL17RA) is a ubiquitous type I membraneglycoprotein that binds with low affinity to interl...
IL17RB: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor. This receptorspecifically binds to IL17B and IL17E, but does not bind to IL17 and IL17C.This receptor has been shown to mediate the activation of NF-kappaB and theproduction of IL8 indu...
IL18R1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that belongsto the interleukin 1 receptor family. This receptor specifically binds interleukin18 (IL18), and is essential for IL18 mediated signal transduction. IFN-alphaand IL12 are reported to induce the expression of this receptor in NK andT cells. This g...
IL1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein,which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE).This cytokine is an important mediator of the inflammatory response, and isinvolved in a variety of cellular activities, including cell proliferation,differentiation, and apoptosis. The induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2/COX2)by this cytokine in the central nervous system (CNS) is found to contributeto inflammatory pain hypersensitivity. Simila...
IL1R1: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that belongs to the interleukin-1receptor family. The encoded protein is a receptor for interleukin-1 alpha,interleukin-1 beta, and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. It is an ...
IL1R2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that belongsto the interleukin 1 receptor family. This protein binds interleukin alpha(IL1A), interleukin beta (IL1B), and interleukin 1 receptor, type I(IL1R1/IL1RA),and acts as a decoy receptor that inhibits the activity of its ligands. Interleukin4 (IL4) is reported to antagonize the activity of interleukin 1 by inducingthe ex...
IL2RA: The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains,together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinityIL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor,while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a medium-affinity receptor.Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated anddetermined to result from extracellular proteolyisis. Alternately-splicedIL2RA mRNAs have been isolated, but the significance of each is presentlyunknown. Muta...
IL2RG: The protein encoded by this gene is an important signaling componentof many interleukin receptors, including those of interleukin -2, -4, -7 and-21, and is thus referred to as the common gamma chain. Mutati...
IL3RA: The protein encoded by this gene is an interleukin 3 specific subunitof a heterodimeric cytokine receptor. The receptor is comprised of a ligandspecific alpha subunit and a signal transducing beta subunit shared by thereceptors for interleukin 3 (IL3), colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF),and interleukin 5 (IL5). The binding of this protein to IL3 depends on thebeta subunit. The beta subunit is ...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleukin 4 topromote differentiation of Th2 cells. A soluble form of the encoded proteincan be produced by proteolysis of the membrane-bound protein, and this solubleform can inhibit IL4-mediated cell proli...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with autoimmune diseases or infections.The protein is primarily produced at sites of acute and chronic inflammation,where it is secreted into the serum and induces a transcriptional inflammatoryresponse ...
IL6ST: The protein encoded by this gene is a signal transducer shared by manycytokines, including interleukin 6 (IL6), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF),leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and oncostatin M (OSM). This protein functionsas a part of the cytokine receptor complex. The activation of this proteinis dependent upon the binding of cytokines to their receptors. vIL6, a proteinrelated to IL6 and enc...
IL7: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine important for B and Tcell development. This cytokine and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) forma heterodimer that functions as a pre-pro-B cell growth-stimulating factor.IL7 is found to be a cofactor for V(D)J rearrangement of the T cell receptorbeta (TCRB) during early T cell development. This cytokine can be producedlocally by intestinal epithelial and epithelial goblet cells, and may serveas a regulatory factor for intestinal mucosal lymphocytes. IL7 plays an essentialrole in lymphoid cell survival, and in the maintenance of naive and memoryT cells. Alternative splicing re...
IL9R: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that specificallymediates the biological effects of interleukin 9 (IL9). The functional IL9receptor complex requires this protein as well as the interleukin 2 receptor,gamma (IL2RG), a common gamma subunit shared by the receptors of many differentcytokines. The ligand binding of this receptor leads to the activation ofvarious JAK kinases and STAT pr...
INHBE: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processedto generate an inhibin beta subunit. Inhibins have been implicated in regulatingnumerous cellular processes including ...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innateand acquired immune responses. The encoded protein activates the transcriptionof genes involved in the body''s response to viruses and bacteria, playinga role in cell proliferation, apoptosis, the immune respons...
IRF9: This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF)family, a group of transcription factors with diverse roles, including virus-mediatedactivation of interferon, and modulation of cell growth, differentiation,apoptosis, and...
ITGA4: The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphachain and a beta chain that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light andheavy chains that comprise the alpha 4 subunit. This s...
ITGB3: The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrinsare integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in differe...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17.It encodes a protein which is highly similar to the viral protein, and whichinteracts directly with specific target DNA sequences to ...
LEPR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the gp130 family of cytokinereceptors that are known to stimulate gene transcription via activation ofcytosolic STAT proteins. This protein is a receptor for leptin (an adipocyte-specifichormone that regulates body weight), and is involved in the regulation offat metabolism, as well as in a novel hematopoietic pathway that is requiredfor normal lymphop...
LTB: Lymphotoxin beta is a type II membrane protein of the TNF family. Itanchors lymphotoxin-alpha to the cell surface through heterotrimer formation.The predominant form on the lymphocyte surface is the lymphotoxin-alpha 1/beta2 complex (e.g. 1 molecule alpha/2 molecules beta) and this complex is theprimary ligand for the lymphotoxin-beta receptor. The minor complex is lymphotoxin-alpha2/beta 1. LT...
LTBR: This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily.The major ligands of this receptor include lymphotoxin alpha/beta and tumornecrosis factor ligand superfamily member 14. The encoded protein plays arole in signalling during the development of lymphoi...
MAP3K8: This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonineprotein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm andcan activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pathways. This protein wasshown to activate IkappaB kinases, and thus induce the nuclear productionof NF-kappaB. This protein was also found to promote the production of TNF-alphaand IL...
MYD88: This gene encodes a cytosolic adapter protein that plays a centralrole in the innate and adaptive immune response. This protein functions asan essential signal transducer in the interleukin-1 and Toll-like receptorsignaling pathways. These pathways regulate that activation of numerous proinflammatorygenes. Th...
OSMR: This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family. Theencoded protein heterodimerizes with interleukin 6 signal transducer to formthe type II oncostatin M receptor and with interleukin 31 receptor A to formthe interleukin 31 receptor, and thus transduces oncostatin M ...
PDGFC: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derivedgrowth factor family. The four members of this family are mitogenic factorsfor cells of mesenchymal origin and are characterized by a core motif of eightcysteines. This gene product appears to form...
PF4: This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokineis released from the alpha granules of activated platelets in the form ofa homotetramer which has high affinity for heparin and is involved in plateletaggregation. This protein i...
PIK3R5: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate the inositolring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position, and play important rolesin cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, motility, survival and intracellulartrafficking. The PI3Ks are divided into three classes: I, II and III, andonly the class I PI3Ks are involved in oncogenesis. This gene encodes the101 kD regulatory subunit of the class I PI3K gamma ...
PIM1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoidand myeloid cell lines, and is overexpressed in hematopoietic malignanciesand in prostate cancer. It plays a role in signal transduction in blood cells,contributing to both cell proliferation and survival, and thus provides ...
PLA2G2A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phospholipaseA2 family (PLA2). PLA2s constitute a diverse family of enzymes with respectto sequence, function, localization, and divalent cation requirements. Thisgene product belongs to group II, which contains secreted form of PLA2, anextracellular enzyme that has a low molecular mass and requires calcium ionsfor catalysis....
PTPN1: The protein encoded by this gene is the founding member of the proteintyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family, which was isolated and identified basedon its enzymatic activity and amino acid sequence. PTPs catalyze the hydrolysisof the phosphate monoesters specifically on tyrosine residues. Members ofthe PTP family share a highly conserved catalytic motif, which is essentialfor the catalytic activity. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules thatregulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation,mitotic cycle, an...
PTPN11: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitoticcycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains two tandem Src homology-2domains, which function as phospho-tyrosine binding domains and mediate theinteraction of this PTP w...
PTPN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. Members of the PTP family share a highly conservedcatalytic motif, which is essential for the catalytic activity. PTPs are knownto be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes includingcell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation.Epidermal growth factor receptor...
REG1A: This gene is a type I subclass member of the Reg gene family. The Reggene family is a multigene family grouped into four subclasses, types I, II,III and IV, based on the primary structures of the encoded proteins. Thisgene encodes a protein that is secreted by the exocrine pancreas. It is associated...
SOCS1: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI familymembers are cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling.The expression of this gene can be induced by a subset of cytokines, includingIL2, IL3 erythropoietin (EPO), CSF2/GM-CSF, and interferon (IFN)...
SOCS3: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI familymembers are cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling.The expression of this gene is induced by various cytokines, including IL6,IL10, and interferon (I...
STAM2: The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to STAM, an adaptorprotein involved in the downstream signaling of cytokine receptors, both ofwhich contain a SH3 domain and the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activationmotif (ITAM). Similar to STAM, this protein acts do...
STAT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers thattranslocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators.The protein encoded by this gene can be activated by various ligands includinginterferon-alpha, interferon-g...
STAT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers thattranslocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators.In response to interferon (I...
STAT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers thattranslocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators.This protein is activated through phosphorylation in response to various cytokinesand growth factors including IFNs, EGF, IL5, IL6, HGF, LIF and BMP2. Thisprotein mediates the expression of a variety of genes in re...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolyticallyprocessed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide,and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer,a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein,...
TLR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans andshare structural and functional similarities. This protein is a cell-surfaceprotein that can form heterodimers with other TLR family members to recognizeconserved molecules derived from microorganisms known as path...
TNF: This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongsto the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secretedby macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A/TNFR1and TNFRSF1B/TNFBR. This cytokine is involved in the regulation of a widespectrum of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation,apoptosis, lipid metabolism, and coagulation. This cytokine has ...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingpathway and regulation of wound healing. Predicted to be located...
TNFRSF1A: This gene encodes a member of the TNF receptor superfamily of proteins.The encoded receptor is found in membrane-bound and soluble forms that interactwith membrane-bound and soluble forms, respectively, of its ligand, tumornecrosis factor alpha. Binding of membrane-bound tumor necrosis factor alphato the membrane-bound receptor induces receptor trimerization and activation,which plays a role in cell survival, apoptosis, and inflammation. Proteolyticprocess...
TNFRSF1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This protein and TNF-receptor 1 form a heterocomplex that mediatesthe recruitment of two anti-apoptotic proteins, c-IAP1 and c-IAP2, which possessE3 ubiquitin ligase activity. The function of IAPs in TNF-receptor signallingis unknown, however, c-IAP1 is th...
TNFRSF21: This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptorsuperfamily. The encoded protein activates nuclear factor kappa-B and mitogen-activatedprotein kinase 8 (also called c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1), and induces cellapoptosis. Through its death domain, the encoded receptor interacts with tumornecrosis factor recep...
TYK2: This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine kinase and, more specifically,the Janus kinases (JAKs) protein families. This protein associates with thecytoplasmic domain of type I and type II cytokine receptors and promulgatecytokine signals by phosphorylating rece...
////
ACER1: Ceramides are synthesized during epidermal differentiation and accumulate within the interstices of the stratum corneum, where they represent critical components of the epidermal permeability barrier. Excess cellular ceramide can trigger antimitogenic signals and induce apoptosis, and the ceramide metabolites sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) are important bioregulatory molecules. Ceramide hydrolysis in the nucleated cell layers regulates keratinocyte proliferation and apoptosis in response to external stress. Ceramide hydrolysis also occurs at the str...
ACER2: The sphingolipid metabolite sphingosine-1-phosphate promotes cell proliferation and survival, whereas its precursor, sphingosine, has the opposite effect. The ceramidase ACER2 hydrolyzes very ...
ACER3: Enables N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase activity and metal ion binding activity. Involved in several processes, including myelination; positive regulation of cell population proliferation; and sphingolipid metabolic process. Is integral component of Golgi membrane and integral componen...
ADPRS: This gene encodes a member of the ADP-ribosylglycohydrolase family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the removal of ADP-ribose from ADP-ribosylated proteins. This enzyme local...
AGL: This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation. This enzyme has two independent catalytic activities which occur at different sites on the protein: a 4-alpha-glucotransferase activity and a amylo-1,6-glucosidase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease although a wide range of enzymat...
AMY1A: Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at high levels in either salivary gland or pancreas. This g...
AMY1B: Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at...
AMY1C: Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at...
AMY2A: This gene encodes a member of the alpha-amylase family of proteins. Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, catalyzing the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. This gene and several f...
AMY2B: Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expresse...
CEMIP: Enables several functions, including clathrin heavy chain binding activity; hyaluronic acid binding activity; and hyalurononglucosaminidase activity. Involved in several processes, including hyaluronan catabolic process; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and positive regul...
CEMIP2: This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein that belongs to the interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) protein superfamily. The encoded protein functions as a cell surface hyaluronidase that cleaves extracellular high molecular weight hyaluronan into intermediate size fragments before internalization and degradation in the lysosome. It also has an interferon-mediated antiviral function in humans through activation of the JAK STAT signaling pathway. The activation of this gene...
CHI3L1: Chitinases catalyze the hydrolysis of chitin, which is an abundant glycopolymer found in insect exoskeletons and fungal cell walls. The glycoside hydrolase 18 family of chitinases includes eight human family members. This gene encodes a glycoprotein member of the glycosyl hydrolase 18 family. The protein lacks chitinase activity and is secreted...
CHI3L2: The protein encoded by this gene is similar to bacterial chitinases but lacks chitinase activity. The encoded protein is secreted and is involved in cartilage biogenesis. Several trans...
CHIA: The protein encoded by this gene degrades chitin, which is found in the cell wall of most fungi as well as in arthropods and some nematodes. The encoded protein can also stimulate interleukin 13 expression, and variations in this gene can lead to asth...
CHIT1: Chitotriosidase is secreted by activated human macrophages and is markedly elevated in plasma of Gaucher disease patients. The expression of chitotriosidase occurs only at a late stage of differentiation of monocytes to activated macrophages in culture. Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated...
CTBS: Chitobiase is a lysosomal glycosidase involved in degradation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides on glycoproteins (Aro...
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway; positive regulation of retrograde protein transport, ER to cytosol; and protein ta...
EDEM2: In the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), misfolded proteins are retrotranslocated to the cytosol and degraded by the proteasome in a process known as ER-associated degradation (ERAD). EDEM2 belongs to a famil...
EDEM3: Quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) ensures that only properly folded proteins are retained in the cell through recognition and degradation of misfolded or unassembled proteins. EDEM3 belongs to a group of proteins th...
ENGASE: This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptides and proteins with mannose modificatio...
FUCA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of fucose-containing glycoproteins and glycolipids. Mutations in this gene are associated with fucosidosis (FUCA1D), which is an aut...
FUCA2: This gene encodes a plasma alpha-L-fucosidase, which represents 10-20% of the total cellular fucosidase activity. The protein is a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 29 family, and catalyzes the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,6-linked fucose joined to the reducing-end N-acetylglucosamine of t...
GAA: This gene encodes lysosomal alpha-glucosidase, which is essential for the degradation of glycogen to glucose in lysosomes. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple intermediate forms and the mature form of the enzyme. Defects in this gene are the cause of glycogen storage disease II, also known...
GALC: This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Krabbe disease, also known as globoid ...
GANAB: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of glucosidase II and a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 31 family of proteins. The heterodimeric enzyme glucosidase II plays a role in protein folding and quality control by cleaving glucose residues from immature glycoproteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of the encoded protei...
GANC: Glycosyl hydrolase enzymes hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. This gene encodes a member of glycosyl hydrolases family 31. This enzyme hydrolyses terminal, non-reducing 1,4-linked alpha-D-glucose residues and releases alpha-D-glucose. This is a key enzyme in glycogen metabolism and its gene ...
GBA2: This gene encodes a microsomal beta-glucosidase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of bile acid 3-O-glucosides as endogenous compounds. Studies to determine subcellular localization of this protein in the liver indicated that the enzyme was mainly enriched in the microsomal fraction where it appeared to be c...
GBA3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic enzyme that can hydrolyze several types of glycosides. The enzyme has its highest activity at neutral pH and is predominantly expressed in human liver, kidney, intestine, and spleen. This gene is a polymorphic pseudogene, with the most common allele being the functional allele that encodes the full-length protein. Some individuals contain a single nucleotide polymorphism that results in a pre...
GLA: This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins. This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose. A variety of mutations in this gene affect the synthesis, processing, and sta...
GLB1: This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 35 family of proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature lysosomal enzyme. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a terminal beta-linked g...
GLB1L: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in extracellular region...
GLB1L2: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be located in extracellular region...
GLB1L3: Predicted to enable beta-galactosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be ...
GM2A: This gene encodes a small glycolipid transport protein which acts as a substrate specific co-factor for the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase A. Beta-hexosaminidase A, together with GM2 ganglioside activator, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Mutati...
GUSB: This gene encodes a hydrolase that degrades glycosaminoglycans, including heparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and chondroitin-4,6-sulfate. The enzyme forms a homotetramer that is localized to the lysosome. Mutations in this gene result in mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. ...
HEXA: This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 20 family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the alpha subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase. This enzyme, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Mutations in this gene lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons, the underlying cause of neurodegene...
HEXB: Hexosaminidase B is the beta subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes. Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases. Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 gan...
HEXD: Enables beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Located in extra...
HPSE: Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are major components of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that cleaves heparan sulfate proteoglycans to permit cell movement through remodeling of the extracellular matrix. In addition, this cleavage can releas...
HPSE2: This gene encodes a heparanase enzyme. The encoded protein is a endoglycosidase that degrades heparin sulfate proteoglycans located on the extracellular matrix and cell surface. This protein may be involved in biological processes involving remodeling of the extrace...
HYAL1: This gene encodes a lysosomal hyaluronidase. Hyaluronidases intracellularly degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. Hyaluronan is thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. This enzyme is active at an acidic pH and is the major hyaluronidase in plasma. Mutations in this gene are associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, or hyaluronidase ...
HYAL2: This gene encodes a weak acid-active hyaluronidase. The encoded protein is similar in structure to other more active hyaluronidases. Hyaluronidases degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. Hyaluronan and fragments of hyaluronan are thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Although it was previously thought to be a lysosomal hyaluronidase that is active at a pH below 4, the encoded protein is likely a GPI-anchored cell surface protein. This hyaluronidase serv...
HYAL3: This gene encodes a member of the hyaluronidase family. Hyaluronidases are endoglycosidase enzymes that degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. The regulated turnover of hyaluronan plays a critical role in many biological processes including cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. The encoded protein may also play an important role in sperm function. This gene is one of several related genes in a region of chromosome 3p21.3 associated with tumor suppression, and the expression of specific transcript variants may be indicative of tumor status....
HYAL4: This gene encodes a protein which is similar in structure to hyaluronidases but lacks hyaluronidase activity. The encoded protein acts as a chondroitin-sulfate-specific endo-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminidase; that is, it exhibits hydrolytic activity toward chondroitin sulfate chains and degrades them into oligosaccharides. Proteoglycans are formed by the covalent linkage of chondroitin sulfate chains to protein. Proteoglycans are ubiquitous components of the extracellular matrix of connective tissues and are also found at the surface of ...
IDUA: This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. This hydrolysis is required for the lysosomal degradation of these glycosaminoglycans. Mutations in this ge...
KL: This gene encodes a type-I membrane protein that is related to beta-glucosidases. Reduced production of this protein has been observed in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF), and this may be one of the factors underlying the degenerative processes (e.g., arteriosclerosis, o...
LALBA: This gene encodes alpha-lactalbumin, a principal protein of milk. Alpha-lactalbumin forms the regulatory subunit of the lactose synthase (LS) heterodimer and beta 1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4Gal-T1) forms the catalytic component. Together, these proteins enable LS to produce lactose by transfering galactose moieties to glucose. As a monomer, alpha-lactalbumin strongly binds...
LCT: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 1 family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme is integral to the plasma membrane and has both phlorizin hydrolase activity and lactase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital lacta...
LCTL: This gene encodes a member of family 1 glycosidases. Glycosidases are enzymes that hydrolyze glycosidic bonds and are classified into families based on primary amino acid sequence. Most members of family 1 have two conserved glutamic acid residues, which are required for enzymatic activity. The mouse ortholog of this protein has been characterized and has a domain structure of an N-terminal signal peptide, glycosidase domain, transmembrane domain, and...
LYG1: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved in defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. Predicted to be active ...
LYG2: The protein encoded by this gene contains a SLT domain, a protein domain present in bacterial lytic transglycosylase (SLT) and in eukaryotic lysozymes (GEWL). SLT domain catalyzes the cleavage of the beta-1,4...
LYZ: This gene encodes human lysozyme, whose natural substrate is the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan (cleaving the beta[1-4]glycosidic linkages between N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetylglucosamine). Lysozyme is one of the antimicrobial agents found in human milk, and is also present in spleen, lung, kidney, white blood cells, plasma, saliva, and tea...
LYZL1: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. [...
LYZL2: Lysozymes (see LYZ; MIM 153450), especially C-type lysozymes, are well-recognized bacteriolytic factors widely distributed in the animal kingdom and play a mainly protective role in host defense. LYZL2 ...
LYZL4: Lysozymes (see LYZ; MIM 153450), especially C-type lysozymes, are well-recognized bacteriolytic factors widely distributed in the animal kingdom and play a mainly protective role in host defense. LYZL4 ...
LYZL6: This gene encodes a member of the C-type lysozyme/alpha-lactalbumin family. C-type lysozymes are bacteriolytic factors that play a role in host defense, whereas alpha-lactalbumins mediate lactose biosynthesis. The encoded protein contains catalytic residues characteristic of C-type...
MAN1A1: This gene encodes a class I mammalian Golgi 1,2-mannosidase which is a type II transmembrane protein. This protein catalyzes the hydrolysis of three terminal mannose residues from peptide-bound Ma...
MAN1A2: Alpha-mannosidases function at different stages of N-glycan maturation in mammalian cells. See MAN2A1 (MIM...
MAN1B1: This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the glycosyl hydrolase 47 family. This enzyme functions in N-glycan biosynthesis, and is a class I alpha-1,2-mannosidase that specifically converts Man9GlcNAc to Man8GlcNAc isomer B. It is required for N-glycan trimming to Man5-6GlcNAc2 in the endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation pathway. Mutations in this gen...
MAN1C1: Predicted to enable mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing. Located i...
MAN2A1: This gene encodes a glycosyl hydrolase that localizes to the Golgi and catalyzes the final hydrolytic step in the asparagine-linked oligosaccharide (N-glycan) maturation pathway. Mutations in the mouse homolog of this gene have...
MAN2A2: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-glycan processing and protein deglycosylation. Predicted to be integral component of membran...
MAN2B1: This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes terminal, non-reducing alpha-D-mannose residues in alpha-D-mannosides. Its activity is necessary for the catabolism of N-linked carbohydrates released during glycoprotein turnover and it is member of family 38 of glycosyl hydrolases. The full length protein is processed in two steps. First, a 49 aa leader sequence is cleaved off and the remainder of the protein is processed into 3 peptides of 70 kDa, 42 kDa (D) and 13/15 kDa (E). Next, the 70 kDa peptide is further proce...
MAN2B2: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in mannose metabolic process. Located in extrac...
MAN2C1: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in oligosaccharide catabolic process. Located ...
MANBA: This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 2 family. The encoded protein localizes to the lysosome where it is the final exoglycosidase in the pathway for N-linked glycoprotein oligosaccharide catabolism. Mutations in this gene are associ...
MANEA: N-glycosylation of proteins is initiated in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by the transfer of the preassembled oligosaccharide glucose-3-mannose-9-N-acetylglucosamine-2 from dolichyl pyrophosphate to acceptor sites on the target protein by an oligosaccharyltransferase complex. This core oligosaccharide is sequentially processed by several ER glycosidases and by an endomannosidase (E.C. 3.2.1.130), such as MANEA, in the Go...
MANEAL: Predicted to enable alpha-mannosidase activity. Predicted to be located in Golgi membrane. Predicted to be integral component of membrane. Predicted ...
MGAM: This gene encodes maltase-glucoamylase, which is a brush border membrane enzyme that plays a role in the final steps of digestion of starch. The protein has two catalytic sites identical to those of sucrase-isomaltase, but the proteins are only 59%...
MGAM2: Predicted to enable alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Predicted to be integra...
MOGS: This gene encodes the first enzyme in the N-linked oligosaccharide processing pathway. The enzyme cleaves the distal alpha-1,2-linked glucose residue from the Glc(3)-Man(9)-GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharide precursor. This protein is located in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. Defects in this gene are a caus...
NAGA: NAGA encodes the lysosomal enzyme alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase, which cleaves alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyl moieties from glycoconjugates. Mutations in NAGA have been identified as the cause...
NAGLU: This gene encodes an enzyme that degrades heparan sulfate by hydrolysis of terminal N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminides. Defects in this gene are the cause of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS-IIIB), also known as Sanfilipp...
NAGPA: Hydrolases are transported to lysosomes after binding to mannose 6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. This gene encodes the enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the formation of the mannose 6-phosphate recognition marker on lysosomal hydrolases. Commonly known as 'uncovering enzyme' or UCE, this enzyme removes N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues from GlcNAc-alpha-P-mannose moieties and thereby produces the recognition marker. The e...
NEU1: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme that cleaves terminal sialic acid residues from substrates such as glycoproteins and glycolipids. In the lysosome, this enzyme is part of a heterotrimeric complex together with beta-galactosidase and cathepsin A (the latter is also referred to as 'protective protein'). Mutations in this gene can lead to sialidosis, a lysosomal storage dis...
NEU2: This gene belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes which remove sialic acid residues from glycoproteins and glycolipids. Expression studies in COS7 cells confirmed that this gene encodes a functional si...
NEU3: This gene product belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes which remove sialic acid residues from glycoproteins and glycolipids. It is localized in the plasma membrane, and its activity is specific for gan...
NEU4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of glycohydrolytic enzymes, which remove terminal sialic acid residues from various sialo derivatives, such as glycoproteins, glycolipids, oligosaccharides, and gangliosides. A...
OGA: The dynamic modification of cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins by O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) addition and removal on serine and threonine residues is catalyzed by OGT (MIM 300255), which adds O-GlcNAc, and...
OTOG: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the acellular membranes of the inner ear. Disruption of the orthologous mouse gene shows that it plays a role in auditory and vestibular functions. It is involved in fibrillar network organization, the anchoring of otoconial membranes and cupulae to the neuroepithelia, and likely in sound stimulation ...
OTOGL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the otogelin family. This gene is expressed in the inner ear of vertebrates with the highest level of expression seen at the embryonic stage and lowest in adult. Knockdown studies in zebrafish suggest that this gene ...
OVGP1: This gene encodes a large, carbohydrate-rich, epithelial glycoprotein with numerous O-glycosylation sites located within threonine, serine, and proline-rich tandem repeats. The gene is similar to members of the mucin and the glycosyl hydrolase 18 gene families. Regulation of expression may be estrogen-dependent. Gene expression and protein secretion occur during late follicular development through ea...
PARG: Poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) is the major enzyme responsible for the catabolism of poly(ADP-ribose), a reversible covalent-modifier of chromosomal proteins. The protein is found in many tissues and may be subject to proteolysis generating s...
PGGHG: Enables protein-glucosylgalactosylhydroxylysine glucosidase activity. Involved in carbohydrate metabolic process. Locat...
SI: This gene encodes a sucrase-isomaltase enzyme that is expressed in the intestinal brush border. The encoded protein is synthesized as a precursor protein that is cleaved by pancreatic proteases into two enzymatic subunits sucrase and isomaltase. These two subunits heterodimerize to form the sucrose-isomaltase complex. This complex is essential ...
SPACA3: The protein encoded by this gene is a sperm surface protein that may be involved in adhesion to the egg prior to fertilization. While the encoded protein has significant similarity to lysozyme at the amino acid level, it has no detectable bact...
SPACA5: Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. [...
SPAM1: Hyaluronidase degrades hyaluronic acid, a major structural proteoglycan found in extracellular matrices and basement membranes. Six members of the hyaluronidase family are clustered into two tightly linked groups on chromosome 3p21.3 and 7q31.3. This gene was previously referred to as HYAL1 and HYA1 and has since been assigned the official symbol SPAM1; another family member on chromosome 3p21.3 has been assigned HYAL1. This gene encodes a GPI-anchored enzyme located on the human sperm surface and inner acrosomal membrane. This multifunctional protein is a hyaluronidase that enables sperm to penetrate through the hyaluronic acid-rich cumulus cell layer surrounding the oocyte, a receptor th...
TREH: This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyses trehalose, a disaccharide formed from two glucose molecules found mainly in fungi, plants, and insects. A partial duplication of this gene is located adjacent to this locus on ch...
////
CLEC4D: This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on...
FES: This gene encodes the human cellular counterpart of a feline sarcoma retrovirus protein with transforming capabilities. The gene product has tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity and that activity is required for maintenance of cellular transformation. Its chromosomal location has linked it to a specific translocation event identified in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia but it is also involved in normal hematopoiesis as well as growth factor and cytokine recepto...
FGR: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs). The encoded protein contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains which are involved in mediating protein-protein interactions with phosphotyrosine-containing and proline-rich motifs, respectively. The protein localizes to plasma membrane ruffles, and functions as a negative regulator of cell migration and adhesion triggered by the beta-2 integrin signal transduction pathway. Infection with Epstein-Barr virus results in the overexp...
IGHA1: Contributes to immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in antibacterial humoral response; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex and secretory dimeric IgA immuno...
IGHA2: Contributes to immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in antibacterial humoral response; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex and secretory dimeric IgA immuno...
IGHD: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of interleukin-1 production. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome....
IGHE: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be activ...
IGHG1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including immunoglobulin mediated immune response; positive regulation of hypersensitivity; and positive regulation...
IGHG2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracell...
IGHG3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in retina homeostasis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome. [prov...
IGHG4: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extrac...
IGHM: Immunoglobulins (Ig) are the antigen recognition molecules of B cells. An Ig molecule is made up of 2 identical heavy chains and 2 identical light chains (see MIM 147200) joined by disulfide bonds so that each heavy chain is linked to a light chain and the 2 heavy chains are linked together. Each Ig heavy chain has an N-terminal variable (V) region containing the antigen-binding site and a C-terminal constant (C) region, encoded by an individual C region gene, that determines the isotype of the antibody and provides effector or signaling functions. The heavy chain V region is encoded by 1 each of 3 types of genes: V genes (see MIM 147070), joining (J) genes (see MIM 147010), and diversity (D) genes (see MIM 146910). The C region genes are clustered downstream of the V region genes within the heavy chain locus on chromosome 14. The IGHM gene encodes the C region of the mu heavy chain, which defines the IgM isotype. Naive B cells express the transmembrane forms of IgM and IgD (see IGHD; MIM 1471770) on their surface. During an antibody response, activated B cells can switch to the expression of individual downstream heavy chain C region genes by a process of somatic recombination known as isotype switching. In addition, secret...
IGHV1-18: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV1-24: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-45: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-46: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV1-58: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-69: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV1-69-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-69D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1-8: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV1OR15-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV1OR15-9: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV1OR21-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV2-26: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV2-5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV2-70: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV2-70D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV2OR16-5: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-11: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV3-13: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood mic...
IGHV3-15: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-16: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-20: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-21: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-23: IGHV3-23 belongs to a cluster of approximately 40 functional variable (V) genes in the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain locus on chromosome 14. For background information on the Ig heavy chain and the V gene c...
IGHV3-30: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracell...
IGHV3-30-3: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV3-30-5: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV3-33: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV3-35: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-38: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-43: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-48: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV3-49: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-53: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV3-64: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-64D: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-66: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extrac...
IGHV3-72: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-73: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-74: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3-9: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV3OR15-7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3OR16-10: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3OR16-12: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3OR16-13: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3OR16-17: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV3OR16-8: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4-28: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4-30-2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4-30-4: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV4-31: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4-34: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV4-38-2: INVOLVED IN adaptive immune response (inferred); immune system process (inferred); FOUND IN extracellular region (inferred); immunoglobulin com...
IGHV4-39: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV4-4: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4-59: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGHV4-61: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV4OR15-8: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV5-10-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV5-51: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV6-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV7-4-1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGHV7-81: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active in exte...
IGKC: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in retina homeostasis. Located in blood microparticle and extracellular exosome. [prov...
IGLC1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extrac...
IGLC2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extrac...
IGLC3: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in blood microparticle and extrac...
IGLC6: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Located in extracell...
IGLC7: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in extracellular region and plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be a...
IGLL1: The preB cell receptor is found on the surface of proB and preB cells, where it is involved in transduction of signals for cellular proliferation, differentiation from the proB cell to the preB cell stage, allelic exclusion at the Ig heavy chain gene locus, and promotion of Ig light chain gene rearrangements. The preB cell receptor is composed of a membrane-bound Ig mu heavy chain in association with a heterodimeric surrogate light chain. This gene encodes one of the surrogate light chain subunits and is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily. This gene does not undergo rearrangement. Mutations in this gene can result in B cell deficiency and agammaglobulinemia, an autosomal recessive dis...
IGLL5: This gene encodes one of the immunoglobulin lambda-like polypeptides. It is located within the immunoglobulin lambda locus but it does not require somatic rearrangement for expression. The first exon of this gene is unrelated to immunoglobulin variable genes; the second and third exons are the immunoglobulin lambda joining 1 and the immunoglobulin lambda constant 1 gene segment...
JCHAIN: Enables IgA binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Contributes to several functions, including immunoglobulin receptor binding activity; peptidoglycan binding activity; and phosphatidylcholine binding activity. Involved in several processes, including defense response to other organism; glomerular filtration; and positive regulation of respiratory burst. Located in extracellular space. Part of monomeric IgA immunoglobulin complex; pentameric IgM immunog...
TARM1: Enables immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of CD4-positive, alpha-beta T cell activation. Located in plasma membrane. [provided ...
TRBC1: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be located in plasma membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be active...
TRBC2: Predicted to enable antigen binding activity and immunoglobulin receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including activation of immune response; defense response to other organism; and phagocytosis. Predicted to be integral component of membrane. Predicted to be part of immunoglobulin complex, circulating. Predicted to be activ...
TRDC: T cell receptors recognize foreign antigens which have been processed as small peptides and bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules at the surface of antigen presenting cells (APC). Each T cell receptor is a dimer consisting of one alpha and one beta chain or one delta and one gamma chain. In a single cell, the T cell receptor loci are rearranged and expressed in the order delta, gamma, beta, and alpha. If both delta and gamma rearrangements produce functional chains, the cell expresses delta and gamma. If not, the cell proceeds to rearrange the beta and alpha loci. This region represents the germline organization of the T cell receptor alpha and delta loci. Both the alpha and delta loci include V (variable), J (joining), and C (constant) segments and the delta locus also includes diversity (D) segments. The delta locus is situated within the alpha locus, between the alpha V and J segments. During T cell development, the delta chain is synthesized by a recombination event at the DNA level joining a D segment with a J segment; a V segment is then joined to the D-J gene. The alpha chain is synthesized by recombination joining a single V segment with a J segment. For both chains, the C segment is later joined by splicing at the RNA level. Recombination of many different V segments with several J segments provides a wide range of antigen recognition. Additional diversity is attained by junctional div...
////
ABCA1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. Wit...
ADAM10: Members of the ADAM family are cell surface proteins with a unique structure possessing both potential adhesion and protease domains. This gene encodes and ADAM family member that cleaves many proteins including TNF-alpha and E-cadherin. Alternate sp...
ANP32E: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in histone exchange. Located in nucleus. Part of Swr1 comp...
AP1G1: Adaptins are important components of clathrin-coated vesicles transporting ligand-receptor complexes from the plasma membrane or from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes. The adaptin family of proteins is composed of four classes of molecules named alpha, beta-, beta prime- and gamma- adaptins. Adaptins, together with medium and small subunits, form a heterotetrameric complex called an adaptor, whose role is to promote the formation of clathrin-coate...
AP2B1: The protein encoded by this gene is one of two large chain components of the assembly protein complex 2, which serves to link clathrin to receptors in coated vesicles. The encoded protein is found on the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles i...
AP2M1: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric coat assembly protein complex 2 (AP2), which belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. The encoded protein is required for the activity of a vacuolar ATPase, which is responsible for proton pumping occurring in the acidification of endosomes and lysosomes. The encoded protein may also play an i...
AP2S1: One of two major clathrin-associated adaptor complexes, AP-2, is a heterotetramer which is associated with the plasma membrane. This complex is composed of two large chains, a medium chain, and a small chain. This gene encode...
AP3B1: This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. The encoded protein is part of the heterotetrameric AP-3 protein complex which interacts with the scaffolding protein clathrin. Mutations in this gene a...
AP3S1: This gene encodes a subunit of the AP3 adaptor complex. This complex functions in the formation of subcellular vesicles budded from the Golgi body. Several related pseudogenes of this gene have been found. Al...
ARCN1: This gene maps in a region, which include the mixed lineage leukemia and Friend leukemia virus integration 1 genes, where multiple disease-associated chromosome translocations occur. It is an intracellular protein. Archain sequences are well conserved among eukaryotes and this protein may play a fundamental role in eukary...
ARF1: ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) is a member of the human ARF gene family. The family members encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products, including 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins, constitute a family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2 and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6), and me...
ARFGAP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that associates with the Golgi apparatus and regulates the early secretory pathway of proteins. The encoded protein promotes hydrolysis of ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1)-bound GTP, which is required for the dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi-derived membranes and vesicles. Dissociation of the coat proteins is a prerequisite for the fusion of these vesicles with target compartments. The activit...
ARFGEF1: ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound GDP with GTP. It contains a Sec7 do...
ARFGEF2: ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound GDP with GTP and is involved in Golgi transport. It contains...
ARFIP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi. Acts upstream of or within intracellular protein transport and regulation of protein secre...
ATP1A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a larg...
ATP6V1B1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'...
ATP6V1H: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular organelles. V-ATPase-dependent organelle acidification is necessary for multiple processes including protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. The encoded protein is the regulatory H subunit of the V1 domain of V-ATPase, which is required for catalysis of A...
ATP7A: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions in copper transport across membranes. This protein is localized to the trans Golgi network, where it is predicted to supply copper to copper-dependent enzymes in the secretory pathway. It relocalizes to the plasma membrane under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, and functions in the efflux of copper from cells. Muta...
BET1: This gene encodes a golgi-associated membrane protein that participates in vesicular transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi complex. The encoded protein functions as a soluble N-ethylaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor and may be involved in...
BNIP3: This gene is encodes a mitochondrial protein that contains a BH3 domain and acts as a pro-apoptotic factor. The encoded protein interacts with anti-apoptotic proteins, including the E1B 1...
CAV2: The protein encoded by this gene is a major component of the inner surface of caveolae, small invaginations of the plasma membrane, and is involved in essential cellular functions, including signal transduction, lipid metabolism, cellular growth control and apoptosis. This protein may function as a tumor suppressor. This gene and related family member (CAV1) are located next to each other on chromosome 7, and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Alternatively spliced transcript va...
CD63: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. The encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. It may function as a blood platele...
CLCN3: This gene encodes a member of the voltage-gated chloride channel (ClC) family. The encoded protein is present in all cell types and localized in plasma membranes and in intracellular vesicles. It is a multi-pass membrane protein which contains a ClC domain and two additional C-terminal CBS (cystathionine beta-synthase) domains. The ClC domain catalyzes the selective flow of Cl- ions across cell membranes, and the CBS domain may have a regulatory function. This protein plays a role in both acidification and transmitter loading of GABAergic synaptic vesicles, and in smooth muscle cell activation and neointima formation. This protein is...
CLN5: This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children. The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-...
CLTA: Clathrin is a large, soluble protein composed of heavy and light chains. It functions as the main structural component of the lattice-type cytoplasmic face of coated pits and vesicles which entrap specific macromolecules during receptor-mediated endocytosis. This gene encodes one of two clathrin light chain proteins which are believed to...
CLTC: Clathrin is a major protein component of the cytoplasmic face of intracellular organelles, called coated vesicles and coated pits. These specialized organelles are involved in the intracellular trafficking of receptors and endocytosis of a variety of m...
COG2: This gene encodes a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex that is required for maintaining normal structure and activity of the Golgi complex. The encoded protein specifically interacts with the USO1 vesicle docking protein and may be necessary for normal Golgi ribbon formation and trafficking of Golgi enzymes. M...
COPB1: This gene encodes a protein subunit of the coatomer complex associated with non-clathrin coated vesicles. The coatomer complex, also known as the coat protein complex 1, forms in the cytoplasm and is recruited to the Golgi by activated guanosine triphosphatases. Once at the Golgi membrane, the coatomer complex may ass...
COPB2: The Golgi coatomer complex (see MIM 601924) constitutes the coat of nonclathrin-coated vesicles and is essential for Golgi budding and vesicular traffi...
COPE: The product of this gene is an epsilon subunit of coatomer protein complex. Coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles. It is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. Coatomer complex c...
CTSC: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase C1 family and lysosomal cysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activation of many serine proteinases in cells of the immune system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate heavy and light chains that form a disulfide-linked dimer. A portion of the propeptide acts as an intramolecular chaperone for the folding and stabilization of the matur...
DNM1L: This gene encodes a member of the dynamin superfamily of GTPases. The encoded protein mediates mitochondrial and peroxisomal division, and is involved in developmentally regulated apoptosis and programmed necrosis. Dysfunction of this gene is implicated in several neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant...
DOP1A: Predicted to be involved in Golgi to endosome transport and endoplasmic reticulum organization. Predicted to be located in Golgi membrane. Predicted to be activ...
DST: This gene encodes a member of the plakin protein family of adhesion junction plaque proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been defined. It has been reported that some isoforms are expressed in neural and muscle tissue, anchoring neural intermediate filaments to the actin cytoskeleton, and some isofor...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family. EGFR is a cell surface protein that binds to epidermal growth factor, thus inducing receptor dimerization and tyrosine autophosphorylation leading to cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with lung cancer. ...
ERGIC3: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport and retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi to endoplasmic...
GALC: This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Krabbe disease, also known as globoid ...
GBF1: This gene encodes a member of the Sec7 domain family. The encoded protein is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that regulates the recruitment of proteins to membranes by mediating GDP to GTP exchange. The encoded protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus and plays a role in vesicular trafficking by activating ADP ribosylation factor ...
GLA: This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins. This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose. A variety of mutations in this gene affect the synthesis, processing, and sta...
GNAS: This locus has a highly complex imprinted expression pattern. It gives rise to maternally, paternally, and biallelically expressed transcripts that are derived from four alternative promoters and 5' exons. Some transcripts contain a differentially methylated region (DMR) at their 5' exons, and this DMR is commonly found in imprinted genes and correlates with transcript expression. An antisense transcript is produced from an overlapping locus on the opposite strand. One of the transcripts produced from this locus, and the antisense transcript, are paternally expressed noncoding RNAs, and may regulate imprinting in this region. In addition, one of the transcripts contains a second overlapping ORF, which encodes a structurally unrelated protein - Alex. Alternative splicing of downstream exons is also observed, which results in different forms of the stimulatory G-protein alpha subunit, a key element of the classical signal transduction ...
GOLGA4: The Golgi apparatus, which participates in glycosylation and transport of proteins and lipids in the secretory pathway, consists of a series of stacked cisternae (flattened membrane sacs). Interactions between the Golgi and microtubules are thought to be important for the reorganization of the Golgi after it fragments during mitosis. This gene encodes one of the golgins, a family of proteins localized to the Golgi. This prot...
GOSR2: This gene encodes a trafficking membrane protein which transports proteins among the medial- and trans-Golgi compartments. Due to its chromosomal location and trafficking fun...
ICA1: This gene encodes a protein with an arfaptin homology domain that is found both in the cytosol and as membrane-bound form on the Golgi complex and immature secretory granules. This protein is believed to be an autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and...
IGF2R: This gene encodes a receptor for both insulin-like growth factor 2 and mannose 6-phosphate. The binding sites for each ligand are located on different segments of the protein. This receptor has various functions, including in the intracellular trafficking of lysosomal enzymes, the activation of transforming growth factor beta, and the degradation of insulin-like growth factor 2. Mutation or loss of heterozygosity of this gene has been association with risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. The or...
KIF1B: This gene encodes a motor protein that transports mitochondria and synaptic vesicle precursors. Mutations in this gene cause...
KRT18: KRT18 encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 18. Keratin 18, together with its filament partner keratin 8, are perhaps the most commonly found members of the intermediate filament gene family. They are expressed in single layer epithelial tissues of the body. Mutations in ...
LAMP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of membrane glycoproteins. This glycoprotein provides selectins with carbohydrate ligands. It may play a role in tumor cell metastasis. It may also function in the protection, maintenance, and adhesion of...
LMAN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane mannose-specific lectin that cycles between the endoplasmic reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment, and cis-Golgi, functioning as a cargo receptor for glycoprotein transport. The protein has an N-terminal signal sequence, a calcium-dependent and pH-sensitive carbohydrate recognition domain, a stalk region that functions in oligomerization, a trans...
M6PR: This gene encodes a member of the P-type lectin family. P-type lectins play a critical role in lysosome function through the specific transport of mannose-6-phosphate-containing acid hydrolases from the Golgi complex to lysosomes. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and requires divalent cations for ligand binding. Alternativel...
MAPK1: This gene encodes a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases. Upon activation, this kinase translocates to the nucleus of the stimulated cells, where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. One study also suggests that this protein acts as a transcriptional repr...
MON2: Predicted to be involved in Golgi to endosome transport. Located in early endosome membrane....
NAPA: This gene encodes a member of the soluble NSF attachment protein (SNAP) family. SNAP proteins play a critical role in the docking and fusion of vesicles to target membranes as part of the 20S NSF-SNAP-SNARE complex. The encoded protein plays a role in the completion of membrane fusion by mediating the interaction of N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) with the vesicle-ass...
NAPG: This gene encodes soluble NSF attachment protein gamma. The soluble NSF attachment proteins (SNAPs) enable N-ethyl-maleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) to bind to target membranes. NSF and SNAPs appear to be general components of the intracellular membrane fusion apparatus, and their action at specific sites of fusion must be controlled by ...
OCRL: This gene encodes an inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase. This protein is involved in regulating membrane trafficking and is located in numerous subcellular locations including the trans-Golgi network, clathrin-coated vesicles and, endosomes and the plasma membrane. This protein may also play a role in primary cilium forma...
PAM: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme includes two domains with distinct catalytic activities, a peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) domain and a peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) domain. These catalytic domains work sequentially to catalyze the conversion o...
PPT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved in the catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal degradation. The encoded enzyme removes thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from cysteine residues. Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscino...
RAB14: RAB14 belongs to the large RAB family of low molecular mass GTPases that are involved in intracellular membrane trafficking. These proteins act as molecular switches that flip between an inactive GDP-bound state and an active GTP-bound state...
RAB22A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAB family of small GTPases. The GTP-bound form of the encoded protein has been shown to interact with early-endosomal antigen 1, and may be ...
RAB2A: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Rab family, members of which are small molecular weight guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) that contain highly conserved domains involved in GTP binding and hydrolysis. The Rabs are membrane-bound proteins, involved in vesicular fusion and trafficking. This protein is a resident of pre-Golgi intermediates, and is required ...
RAB5A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in several processes, including amyloid-beta clearance by transcytosis; early endosome to late endosome transport; and regulation of exocytosis. Located in several cellular compon...
RAB9A: Enables GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Involved in negative regulation by host of symbiont catalytic activity; positive regulation of exocytosis; and regulation of protein locali...
RER1: The protein encoded by this gene is a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized to the golgi apparatus. It is involved in the retention of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane proteins in the ER and retrieval of ER memb...
RPS6KA3: This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. The activity of this protein has...
SCAMP1: This gene product belongs to the SCAMP family of proteins, which are secretory carrier membrane proteins. They function as carriers to the cell surface in post-golgi recycling pathways. Different family members are highly related products of distinct genes, and are usually expressed together. These findings suggest that these protein family members may function at the same site...
SCAMP3: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that belongs to the secretory carrier membrane protein family. The encoded protein functions as a carrier to the cell surface in post-golgi recycling pathways. This protein is also involved in protein traf...
SCRN1: This gene likely encodes a member of the secernin family of proteins. A similar protein in rat functions in regulation of exocytosis in mast cells. Altern...
SEC22B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC22 family of vesicle trafficking proteins. It seems to complex with SNARE and it is thought to play a role in the ER-Golgi protein trafficking. ...
SEC24D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC24 subfamily of the SEC23/SEC24 family, which is involved in vesicle trafficking. The encoded protein has similarity to yeast Sec24p component of COPII. COPII is the coat protein complex responsible for vesicle budding from the ER. This gene product is implicated in the shaping of the vesicle, and also in cargo selection and concentration. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ...
SEC31A: The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with the yeast Sec31 protein, and is a component of the outer layer of the coat protein complex II (COPII). The encoded protein is involved in vesicle budding from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and contains multiple WD repeats near the N-terminus and a proline-rich region in the C-terminal half. It associates with the protein encoded by the SEC13 homolog, nuclear pore and COPII coat complex component (SEC13), and is required for E...
SGMS1: The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a five-pass transmembrane protein. This gene may be pre...
SH3GL2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of blood-brain barrier permeability; negative regulation of gene expression; and negative regulation of protein phos...
SNAP23: Specificity of vesicular transport is regulated, in part, by the interaction of a vesicle-associated membrane protein termed synaptobrevin/VAMP with a target compartment membrane protein termed syntaxin. These proteins, together with SNAP25 (synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa), form a complex which serves as a binding site for the general membrane fusion machinery. Synaptobrevin/VAMP and syntaxin are believed to be involved in vesicular transport in most, if not all cells, while SNAP25 is present almost exclusively in the brain, suggesting that a ubiquitously expressed homolog of SNAP25 exists to facilitate transport vesicle/target membrane fusion in other tissues. The protein encoded by this gene is structurally...
SNX2: This gene belongs to the sorting nexin family whose members contain the phosphoinositide-binding phox (PX) domain. The encoded protein is a component of the retromer complex which plays a role in protein sorting in the endocytic pathway. This protein may form oligomeric complexes with other family members. Al...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. The other isozyme is a mitochondrial protein. In addition, this protein contains an antimicrobial peptide that displays antibacterial, antifungal, and anti-MRSA activity ...
SSPN: This gene encodes a member of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). The DGC spans the sarcolemma and is comprised of dystrophin, syntrophin, alpha- and beta-dystroglycans and sarcoglycans. The DGC provides a structural link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellul...
STAM: This gene encodes a member of the signal-transducing adaptor molecule family. These proteins mediate downstream signaling of cytokine receptors and also play a role in ER to Golgi trafficking by interacting with the coat protein II complex. The encoded protein also associates with hepatocyte growth factor-regulated substrate to form the endosomal sorting complex required for transp...
STX12: Predicted to enable SNAP receptor activity and SNARE binding activity. Involved in autophagosome assembly; cholesterol efflux; and protein stabilization. Located in several cellular components, including membrane raft; phagocytic vesicle; an...
STX16: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the syntaxin or t-SNARE (target-SNAP receptor) family. These proteins are found on cell membranes and serve as the targets for V-SNARES (vesicle-SNAP receptors) permitting specific synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. A microdeletion in the region of chromosome 20 where this gene is located has been associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism ty...
STX7: The protein encoded by this gene is a syntaxin family membrane receptor involved in vesicle transport. The encoded protein binds alpha-SNAP, an important regulator of transport vesicle fusion. Along with syntaxin 13, t...
TMED10: This gene is a member of the EMP24/GP25L/p24 family and encodes a protein with a GOLD domain. This type I membrane protein is localized to the plasma membrane and golgi cisternae and is involved in vesicular protein trafficking. The protein is also a member of a heteromeric secretase complex and regulates the complex's gamma-secretase activity without affec...
TMED2: Involved in several processes, including Golgi organization; negative regulation of GTPase activity; and protein localization to plasma membrane. Located in Golgi apparatus; endoplasmic reticulum;...
TMX1: This gene encodes a member of the disulfide isomerase (PDI) family of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins that catalyze protein folding and thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. The encoded protein has an N-terminal ER-signal sequence, a catalytically active thioredoxin domain, and one transmembrane domain. Unlike most members of this gene family, it lacks...
TOM1L1: Enables clathrin binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of mitotic nuclear division; positive regulation of protein phosphorylation; and s...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in B cell differentiation. Located in endoplasmic reticulum and ...
TSG101: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a group of apparently inactive homologs of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. The gene product contains a coiled-coil domain that interacts with stathmin, a cytosolic phosphoprotein implicated in tumorigenesis. The protein may play a role in cell growth and differentiation and act as a negative growth regulator. In vitro steady-state expression of this tumor susceptibility gene appears to be important for mainten...
TSPAN8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein i...
USO1: The protein encoded by this gene is a peripheral membrane protein which recycles between the cytosol and the Golgi apparatus during interphase. It is regulated by phosphorylation: dephosphorylated protein associates with the Golgi membrane and dissociates from the membrane upon phosphorylation. Ras-associated protein 1 recruits this protein to coat protein complex II (COPII) vesicles during budding from the endoplasmic ret...
VAMP3: Synaptobrevins/VAMPs, syntaxins, and the 25-kD synaptosomal-associated protein are the main components of a protein complex involved in the docking and/or fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane. This gene is a member of the vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin family. Because of its high homology to other known VAMPs, its broad tissue distribution, and its subcellular localization, the protein ...
VAMP4: Synaptobrevins/VAMPs, syntaxins, and the 25-kD synaptosomal-associated protein SNAP25 are the main components of a protein complex involved in the docking and/or fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the vesicle-as...
VAMP7: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is a member of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) family. The encoded protein localizes to late endosomes and lysosomes and is involved in the fusion ...
VPS45: Vesicle mediated protein sorting plays an important role in segregation of intracellular molecules into distinct organelles. Genetic studies in yeast have identified more than 40 vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes involved in vesicle transport to vacuoles. This gene is a member of the Sec1 domain family, and shows a high degree of sequence similarity to mouse, rat and yeast Vps45. The exact function of this gene is not known, but...
VPS4B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AAA protein family (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities), and is the homolog of the yeast Vps4 protein. In humans, two paralogs of the yeast protein have been identified. The former share a high degree of aa sequence similarity with each other, and also with yeast Vps4 and mouse Skd1 proteins. Mouse Skd1 (suppressor of K+ transport defect 1) has been shown to be a yeast Vps4 ortholog. Functional studies indicate that both human pa...
YIPF6: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within intestinal epithelial cell development. Located in Golgi apparatus s...
YKT6: This gene product is one of the SNARE recognition molecules implicated in vesicular transport between secretory compartments. It is a membrane associated, isoprenylated protein that functions at the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi transport step. This protein is highly co...
ZW10: This gene encodes a protein that is one of many involved in mechanisms to ensure proper chromosome segregation during cell division. This protein is an essential component of the mi...
////
ADAR: This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for RNA editing by site-specificdeamination of adenosines. This enzyme destabilizes double-stranded RNA throughconversion of adenosine to inosine. Mutations in this gene have been associatedwi...
B2M: This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the majorhistocompatibility complex (MHC) class I heavy chain on the surface of nearlyall nucleated cells. The protein has a predominantly beta-pleated sheet structurethat can form amyloid fibrils in some pathological conditions. The encodedantimicro...
BATF2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in defense response to protozoan;myeloid dendritic cell differentiation; and regulation...
BST2: Bone marrow stromal cells are involved in the growth and developmentof B-cells. The specific function of the protein encoded by the bone marrowstromal cell antigen 2 is undetermined; however,...
C1S: This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent ofthe human complement subcomponent C1. C1s associates with two other complementcomponents C1r and C1q in order to yield the first component of th...
CASP1: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactiveproenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residuesto produce 2 subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme.This gene was identified by its ability to proteolytically cleave and activatethe inactive precursor of interleukin-1, a cytokine involved in the processessuch as inflammation, septic shoc...
CASP8: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain,a large protease subunit, and a small protease subunit. Activation of caspasesrequires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues togenerate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits.This protein is involved in the programmed cell death induced by Fas and variousapoptotic stimuli. The N-terminal FADD-like death effector domain of thisprotein suggests that it may interact with Fas-interacting protein FADD. Thisprote...
CCRL2: This gene encodes a chemokine receptor like protein, which is predictedto be a seven transmembrane protein and most closely related to CCR1. Chemokinesand their receptors mediated signal transduction are critical for the recruitmentof effector immune cells to the site of inflammation. This gene is expressedat high levels in primary neutrophils and primary monocytes, and is furtherupregulated on n...
CD47: This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increasein intracellular calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellularmatrix. The encoded protein is also a receptor for the C-terminal cell bindingdomain of thrombospondin, and it may play a role in membrane transport andsignal transduction. Thi...
CD74: The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibilitycomplex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentationfor immune response. It also serves as cell surface receptor for the cytokinemacrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) which, when bound to the encodedprotein, initiates survival pathways and cell proliferation. This proteinalso inter...
CMPK2: This gene encodes one of the enzymes in the nucleotide synthesis salvagepathway that may participate in terminal differentiation of monocytic cells.Multiple transcript v...
CMTR1: Enables mRNA (nucleoside-2''-O-)-methyltransferase activity. Involvedin 7-methylguanosine mRNA capping and cap1 mRNA methylation. L...
CNP: Predicted to enable 2'',3''-cyclic-nucleotide 3''-phosphodiesterase activity.Involved in substantia nigra development. Located in several cellular components,including extracellular space; microtubule; and plasma membrane. Implicatedin hypomyelinating leukodystrophy 20; multiple sclerosi...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the proteinis found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought tobe produced by proteolytic cleavage of membrane-bound precur...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily andligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding of this protein to CXCR3 results inpleiotropic effects, including stimulation of monocytes, natural killer andT-cell migration, and modulation of adhesion mol...
CXCL11: Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostlybasic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of varioustypes of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane,G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundamental roles in thedevelopment, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they haveeffects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cellsinvolved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. Chemokines are divided into 2 majorsubfamilies, CXC and CC. This antimicrobial gene is a CXC member of the chemokinesuperfamily. Its encoded protein induces a chemotactic response in activ...
DDX60: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp(DEAD), are putative RNA helicases which are implicated in a number of cellularprocsses involving RNA binding and alteration of RNA secondary structure.This gene encodes a DEXD...
DHX58: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; single-stranded RNA bindingactivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Involved in negative regulation ofdefense response and negative regulation of type I...
EIF2AK2: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinasethat is activated by autophosphorylation after binding to dsRNA. The activatedform of the encoded protein can phosphorylate translation initiation factorEIF2S1, which in turn inhibits protein synthesis. This protein is also activated...
ELF1: This gene encodes an E26 transformation-specific related transcriptionfactor. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in lymphoid cells and actsas both an enhancer and a repressor to regulate transcri...
EPSTI1: The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to promote tumor invasionand metastasis in some invasive cancer cells when overexpressed. Expressionof this gene has been shown to be upregulated by direct binding of the Kruppellike factor 8 protein to promoter sequences. The translated protein interactswith the amino terminal region of the valosin containing protein gene product,resulting in the nuclear translocation of the ...
GBP2: This gene belongs to the guanine-binding protein (GBP) family, whichincludes interferon-induced proteins that can bind to guanine nucleotides(GMP, GDP and GTP). The encoded protein is a GTPase which hydrolyzes GTP,...
GBP4: Guanylate-binding proteins, such as GBP4, are induced by interferonand hydrolyze GTP to both GDP and GMP ...
GMPR: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the irreversible and NADPH-dependentreductive deamination of GMP to IMP. The protein also functions in the re-util...
HELZ2: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcriptional co-activatorfor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha. The encoded proteincontains a zinc finger and is a helicase that appears to be part of the peroxisomeproliferator activated receptor alpha interacting complex. This gene is amem...
HERC6: HERC6 belongs to the HERC family of ubiquitin ligases, all of whichcontain a HECT domain and at least 1 RCC1 (MIM 179710)-like domain (RLD).The 350-amino acid HECT domain is predicted to catalyze the formation of athioester with ubiquitin before transferring it to a substrate, and ...
HLA-C: HLA-C belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain(beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. ClassI molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptidesderived from endoplasmic reticulum lumen. They are expressed in nearly allcells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons.Exon one encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2domain, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmictail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptidebinding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphismsis routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. About 6000 HLA-Calleles have been described. The HLA system plays an important role in theoc...
IFI27: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding activity; and lamin binding activity.Involved in several processes, including cellular protein metabolic process;defense response to other organism; and extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.Acts upstream of or within negative regulation ...
IFI30: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal thiol reductase thatat low pH can reduce protein disulfide bonds. The enzyme is expressed constitutivelyin antigen-presenting cells and induced by gamma-interferon in othe...
IFI35: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,including macrophage activation involved in immune response; positive regulationof defense response; and regulation of signal transduction. Located in seve...
IFI44: Predicted to be involved in immune response. Predicted to act upstreamof or within response to bacterium. Predicted to be loc...
IFI44L: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Involved in defense responseto virus. Predicted to be located in c...
IFIH1: IFIH1 encodes MDA5 which is an intracellular sensor of viral RNA thattriggers the innate immune response. Sensing RNA length and secondary structure,MDA5 binds dsRNA oligonucleotides with a modified DExD/H-box helicase coreand a C-terminal domain, thus leading to a proinflammatory response that includesinterferons. It has been shown that Coronaviruses (CoVs) as well as variousother virus families, are capable of evading the MDA5-dependent interferonresponse, thus impeding the activation of the innate immune response to infection.MDA5 has also been shown to play a...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of proteinbinding activity; positive regulation of apoptotic process; and response tovirus...
IFIT3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in negative regulationof apoptotic process; negative regulation of cell population proliferation;and response to v...
IFITM1: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon induced antiviral proteins. The family contains five members, includingIFITM1, IFITM2 and IFITM3 that belong to the CD225 superfamily. The proteinencoded by this gene...
IFITM2: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon induced antiviral proteins. The family contains five members, includingIFITM1, IFITM2 and IFITM3 and belong to the CD225 superfamily. The proteinencoded by this gene ...
IFITM3: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon induced antiviral proteins. The family contains five members, includingIFITM1, IFITM2 and IFITM3 and belong to the CD225 superfamily. The proteinencoded by this gene ...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T andnatural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine2 share many biological activities. They are found to bind common hematopoietinreceptor subunits, and may compete for the same receptor, and thus negativelyregulate each other''s activity. The number of CD8+ memory cells is shownto be controlled by a balance between this cytokine and IL2. This cytokineinduces the activation of JAK kinases, as well as the phosphorylation andactivation of transcription activators STAT3, STAT5, and STA...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleukin 4 topromote differentiation of Th2 cells. A soluble form of the encoded proteincan be produced by proteolysis of the membrane-bound protein, and this solubleform can inhibit IL4-mediated cell proliferation and IL5 upregulation by T-cells.Allelic variations in this gene have been associated with atopy...
IL7: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine important for B and Tcell development. This cytokine and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) forma heterodimer that functions as a pre-pro-B cell growth-stimulating factor.IL7 is found to be a cofactor for V(D)J rearrangement of the T cell receptorbeta (TCRB) during early T cell development. This cytokine can be producedlocally by intestinal epithelial and epithelial goblet cells, and may serveas a regulatory factor for intestinal mucosal lymphocytes. IL7 plays an essentialrole in lymphoid cell survival, and in the maintenance of naive and memoryT cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encodingdistinct isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but theirpresence in normal tissues has not be...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innateand acquired immune responses. The encoded protein activates the transcriptionof genes involved in the body''s response to viruses and bacteria, playinga role in cell proliferation, apoptosis, the immune response, and DNA damageresponse. This protein represses the transcription of several other gen...
IRF2: IRF2 encodes interferon regulatory factor 2, a member of the interferonregulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. IRF2 competitively inhibitsthe IRF1-mediated transcriptional activation of interferons alpha and beta,and presumably other genes that em...
IRF7: This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferonregulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. It has been shown to play arole in the transcriptional activation of virus-inducible cellular genes,including interferon beta chain genes. Inducible expression of IRF7 is lar...
IRF9: This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF)family, a group of transcription factors with diverse roles, including virus-mediatedactivation of interferon, and modulation of cell growth, differentiation,apoptosis, and immune system activity. Members of the IRF family are charac...
ISG15: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitin-like protein that isconjugated to intracellular target proteins upon activation by interferon-alphaand interferon-beta. Several functions have been ascribed to the encoded protein,including chemotactic activity towards neutrophils, direction of ligated targetproteins to intermediate filaments, cell-to-cell signaling, and an...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defense response to virus; negative regulation of viral genome replication;and nucleobase-containing compound cata...
LAMP3: Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells.Immature DCs efficiently capture antigens and differentiate into interdigitatingdendritic cells (IDCs) in lymphoid tissues that ind...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Predicted to be involved inproteolysis. Located in cytosol; midbody; and ...
LGALS3BP: The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteinsimplicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. LGALS3BPhas been found elevated in the serum of patients with cancer and in thoseinfected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). It appears to be implicatedin immune response associated with natural killer (NK) and lymphokine-activatedkiller (LAK) cell cytotoxicity. Using fluorescence...
LPAR6: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-proteincoupled receptors, that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridinenucleotides. This gene aligns with an internal intron of the retinoblastomasusceptib...
LY6E: This gene belongs to the human Ly6 gene family and encodes a glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol(GPI)-anchored cell surface protein. The protein plays an important role inT cell physiology, oncogenesis and immunological regulation. The protei...
MOV10: Enables 5''-3'' RNA helicase activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defense response to virus; negative regulation of transposition, RNA-mediated;and posttranscriptional regulation of gene expressi...
MVB12A: Enables lipid binding activity and ubiquitin binding activity. Involvedin regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway; viralbudding; and virus maturation. Located in several cellular components, includ...
MX1: This gene encodes a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing proteinthat participates in the cellular antiviral response. The encoded proteinis induced by type I and type II interferons and antagonizes the replicationprocess of several different RNA and DNA viruses. There is a related genelocated adjacent to this gene ...
NCOA7: Enables nuclear receptor binding activity and nuclear receptor coactivatoractivity. Involved in positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymeraseII....
NMI: NMYC interactor (NMI) encodes a protein that interacts with NMYC andCMYC (two members of the oncogene Myc family), and other transcription factorscontaining a Zip, HLH, or HLH-Zip motif. The NMI protein also interacts withall STATs except STAT2 and augments STAT-mediated transcription in responseto cytokines IL2 and IFN-gamma. T...
NUB1: This gene encodes a protein that functions as a negative regulator ofNEDD8, a ubiquitin-like protein that conjugates with cullin family membersin order to regulate vital biological events. The protein encoded by thisgene regulates the NEDD8 conjugation system post-transcriptionally by recruitingNEDD8 and its conjugates to the proteasome for degradation. This protein interactswith the product of the AIPL1 gene, which is associated with Leber congenitalamaurosis, an inherited retinopathy, and mutations in that gene can abolishinteraction with this protein, which may contribute to the pathogenesis. Thisprote...
OAS1: This interferon-induced gene encodes a protein that synthesizes 2'',5''-oligoadenylates(2-5As). This protein plays a key role in innate cellular antiviral response,and has been implicated in other cellular processes like cell growth and apoptosis.Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants with differentenzymatic activities. Polymorphisms in this gene ha...
OASL: Enables DNA binding activity and double-stranded RNA binding activity.Involved in several processes, including interleukin-27-mediated signalingpathway; negative regulation of viral genome replication; and positive regulation...
OGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for opioid growth factor(OGF), also known as [Met(5)]-enkephalin. OGF is a negative regulator of cellproliferation and tissue organization in a variety of processes. The encodedunbound receptor for OGF has been localized to the outer nuclear envelope,where it binds OGF and is translocated into the nucleus. The coding ...
PARP12: Enables protein ADP-ribosylase activity. Involved in protein auto-ADP-ribosylationand protein mono-ADP-ribosylation. Predicted to ...
PARP14: This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)protein family. The encoded anti-apoptotic protein may regulate aerobic glycolysisand promote survival of cancer cells. In...
PARP9: Enables several functions, including ADP-D-ribose binding activity;NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity; and STAT family protein binding activity.Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of nitrogen compoundmetabolic process; regulation of defense response; and regulation of geneexpression. Located in several cellu...
PLSCR1: This gene encodes a phospholipid scramblase family member. The encodedprotein is involved in disruption of the asymmetrical distribution of phospholipidsbetween the inner and outer leaflets of the plasma membrane, resulting inexternalization of phosphatidylserine. This cell membrane disruption playsan important role in the blood coagulation cascad...
PNPT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the evolutionary conservedpolynucleotide phosphorylase family comprised of phosphate dependent 3''-to-5''exoribonucleases implicated in RNA processing and degradation. This enzymeis predominantly localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and isinvolved in import of RNA to mitochondria. Mutations in this gene ha...
PROCR: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for activated proteinC, a serine protease activated by and involved in the blood coagulation pathway.The encoded protein is an N-glycosylated type I membrane protein that enhancesthe activation of protein C. Mutations in this gene have been associated withvenous thromboembolism and myocardia...
PSMA3: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunitsand 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughouteukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependentprocess in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteas...
PSMB8: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunitsand 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughouteukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependentprocess in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome,the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This geneencodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family,that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is located in the class II regionof the MHC (major hist...
PSMB9: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunitsand 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughouteukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependentprocess in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome,the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This geneencodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family,that is a 20S...
PSME1: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits.The 19S regulator is composed of a base, which contains 6 ATPase subunitsand 2 non-ATPase subunits, and a lid, which contains up to 10 non-ATPase subunits.Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentrationand cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomalpathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome,is the processing of class I MHC peptides. The immunoproteasome contains analternate regulator, re...
PSME2: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits.The 19S regulator is composed of a base, which contains 6 ATPase subunitsand 2 non-ATPase subunits, and a lid, which contains up to 10 non-ATPase subunits.Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentrationand cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomalpathway.  An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome,is the processing of class I MHC peptides. The immunoproteasome contains analternate regulator, referred...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP)family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein contains aC-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD), and is a componentof signaling complexes in both the innate and...
RNF31: The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger, a motif presentin a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved inprotein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein is the E3ubiquitin-protein ligase component of the li...
RSAD2: The protein encoded by this gene is an interferon-inducible antiviralprotein that belongs to the S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) superfamily of enzymes.The protein plays a role in cellular antiviral response and innate immunesignaling. Antiviral effects result from inhibition of viral RNA replication,interference in the secretory pathway, binding to viral proteins and dysre...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. Involved indefense response to virus; detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensoryperception of bitter taste; and pr...
SAMD9: This gene encodes a sterile alpha motif domain-containing protein.The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and may play a role in regulatingcell proliferation and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause ofnormophosphatemic familia...
SAMD9L: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that acts as a tumor suppressorbut also plays a key role in cell proliferation and the innate immune responseto viral infection. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal sterile alphamotif domain. Naturally occurring mutations in this gene are associated withmyeloid disorders such as juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, acute myeloidleukemia, and myelodyspl...
SELL: This gene encodes a cell surface adhesion molecule that belongs to afamily of adhesion/homing receptors. The encoded protein contains a C-typelectin-like domain, a calcium-binding epidermal growth factor-like domain,and two short complement-like repeats. The gene product is required for bindingand subsequent rolling of leucocytes on endothelial cells, facilitating theirmigration into secondary lymphoid organs and inflamma...
SLC25A28: Predicted to enable ferrous iron transmembrane transporter activity.Predicted to be involved in iron import into the mitochondrion. Predictedto...
SP110: The nuclear body is a multiprotein complex that may have a role inthe regulation of gene transcription. This gene is a member of the SP100/SP140family of nuclear body proteins and encodes a leukocyte-specific nuclear bodycomponent. The protein can function as an activator of gene transcriptionand may serve as a nuclear hormone receptor coactivator. In addition, it hasbeen suggested that the protein may play a role i...
STAT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers thattranslocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators.In response to interferon (IFN), this protein forms a complex with STAT1 andIFN regulatory factor family protein...
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20,White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of theMDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encodedby this gene is involved in the pumping of degraded cytosolic peptides acrossthe endoplasmic reticu...
TDRD7: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Tudor family of proteins.This protein contains conserved Tudor domains and LOTUS domains. It is a componentof RNA granules, which function in RNA processing. Mutations in this genehave been associa...
TENT5A: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mRNA stabilization.Predicted to act upstream of or within response to bacterium. Implicated inlung non-small cell carcinoma; ...
TMEM140: Predicted to be integral component of membrane. [provided by All...
TRAFD1: The innate immune system confers host defense against viral and microbialinfection, and TRAFD1 is a negative feedback regulator that controls excessive...
TRIM14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizesto cytoplasmic bod...
TRIM21: This gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family.The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The encoded protein is partof the RoSSA ribonucleoprotein, which includes a single polypeptide and oneof four small RNA molecules. The RoSSA particle localizes to both the cytoplasmand the nucleus. RoSSA interacts with autoantige...
TRIM25: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein isan RNA binding protein, functions as a ub...
TRIM26: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizesto cytoplasmic bodies. Although the function of the protein is unknown, theRING domain suggests that the protein may have DNA-binding activity. The genel...
TRIM5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein formshomo-oligomers via the coilel-coil region and localizes to cytoplasmic bodies.It appears to function as a E3 ubiquitin-ligase and ubiqutinates itself toregulate i...
TXNIP: This gene encodes a thioredoxin-binding protein that is a member ofthe alpha arrestin protein family. Thioredoxin is a thiol-oxidoreductase thatis a major regulator of cellular redox signaling which protects cells fromoxidative stress. This protein inhibits the antioxidative function of thioredoxinresulting in the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and cellular stress.This protein also functi...
UBA7: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activatingenzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-proteinligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E1 ubiquitin-activatingenzyme family. The encoded enzyme is a retinoid target that triggers promy...
UBE2L6: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activatingenzymes (E1s), ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2s) and ubiquitin-protein ligases(E3s). This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.This e...
USP18: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiquitin-specificproteases (UBP) family of enzymes that cleave ubiquitin from ubiquitinatedprotein substrates. It is highly expressed in liver and thymus, and is localizedto the nucleus. This protein efficiently cleaves only ISG15 (a ubiquitin-likeprotein) fusions, and deletion of this gene in mice results in a massive increaseof ISG15 conjugates in tissues, indicating that this protein is a ma...
WARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids withnucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thoughtto be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Two forms of tryptophanyl-tRNAsynthetase exist, a cytoplasmic form, named WARS, and a mitochondrial form,named WARS2. Tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (WARS) catalyzes the aminoa...
////
ABCC4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesacross extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into sevendistinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This proteinis a member of the MRP subfamily whic...
ABHD2: This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold,which is a catalytic domain found in a wide range of enzymes. The encodedprotein is an acylglycerol lipase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of endocannabinoidarachidonoylglycerol from t...
ACSL3: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convertfree long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play akey role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid...
ACTN1: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple rolesin different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is foundalong microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involvedin binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skel...
ADAMTS1: This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinasewith thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share severaldistinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinasedomain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif.Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs,and some have unique C-termi...
ADRM1: This gene encodes a member of the adhesion regulating molecule 1 proteinfamily. The encoded protein is a component of the proteasome where it actsas a ubiquitin receptor and recruits the deubiquitinating enzyme, ubiquitincarboxyl-terminal hydrolase L5. Increased levels of the encoded p...
AKAP12: The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverseproteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunitof protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locationswithin the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encodedprotein is expressed in endothelial cells, cultured fibroblasts, and osteosarcomacells. It associates with protein k...
AKT1: This gene encodes one of the three members of the human AKT serine-threonineprotein kinase family which are often referred to as protein kinase B alpha,beta, and gamma. These highly similar AKT proteins all have an N-terminalpleckstrin homology domain, a serine/threonine-specific kinase domain anda C-terminal regulatory domain. These proteins are phosphorylated by phosphoinositide3-kinase (PI3K). AKT/PI3K forms a key component of many signalling pathwaysthat involve the binding of membrane-bound ligands such as receptor tyrosinekinases, G-protein coupled receptors, and integrin-linked kinase. These AKTproteins therefore regulate a wide variety of cellular functions includingcell proliferation, survival, metabolism, and angiogenesis in both normaland malignant cells. AKT proteins are recruited to the cell membrane by phosphatidylinositol3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) after phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate(PIP2) by PI3K. Subsequent phosphorylation of both threonine residue 308 andserine residue 473 is required for full activation of the AKT1 protein encodedby this gene. Phosphorylation of ...
ALDH1A3: This gene encodes an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme that uses retinalas a substrate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with microphthalmia,isolated 8, ...
ANKH: This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that is expressedin joints and other tissues and controls pyrophosphate levels in culturedcells. Progressive ankylosis-mediated control of pyrophosphate levels hasbeen suggested as a p...
APPBP2: The protein encoded by this gene interacts with microtubules and isfunctionally associated with beta-amyloid precursor protein transport and/orprocessing. The beta-amyloid precursor protein is a cell surface protein withsignal-transducing properties, and it is thought to play a ...
ARID5B: This gene encodes a member of the AT-rich interaction domain (ARID)family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein forms a histone H3K9Me2demethylase complex with PHD finger protein 2 and regulates the transcriptionof target genes involved in adipogenesis and liver development. This genealso plays a rol...
AZGP1: Involved in cell adhesion and detection of chemical stimulus involvedin sensory perception of bit...
B2M: This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the majorhistocompatibility complex (MHC) class I heavy chain on the surface of nearlyall nucleated cells. The protein has a predominantly beta-pleated sheet structurethat can form amyloid...
B4GALT1: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, andXyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of differentglycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, theyhave an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein tothe Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembraneanchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, andbeta4GalT7. This gene is unique among the beta4GalT genes because it encodesan enzyme that participates both in glycoconjugate and lactose...
BMPR1B: This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands ofthis receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPsare involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteinstransduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptorsof about 50-55 kD and type II ...
CAMKK2: The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinasefamily, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Themajor isoform of this gene plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent(CaM) kinase cascade by phosphorylating the downstream kinases CaMK1 and CaMK4.Protein products of this gene also phosphorylate AMP-activated protein kinase(AMPK). This gene has its strongest expressi...
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDKkinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patternswhich contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. Thiscyclin forms a complex with and functions as a reg...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns whichcontribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclinforms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6,who...
CDC14B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificityprotein tyrosine phosphatase family. This protein is highly similar to Saccharomycescerevisiae Cdc14, a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cellmitosis and initiation of DNA replication, which suggests the role in...
CDK6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CMGC family of serine/threonineprotein kinases. This kinase is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinasecomplex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition.The activity of this kinase first appears in mid-G1 phase, which is controlledby the regulatory subunits including D-type cyclins and members of INK4 familyof CDK inhibitors. Th...
CENPN: The protein encoded by this gene forms part of the nucleosome-associatedcomplex and is important for kinetochore assembly. It is bound to kinetochoresduring S phase and G2 and recruits other proteins to th...
DBI: This gene encodes diazepam binding inhibitor, a protein that is regulatedby hormones and is involved in lipid metabolism and the displacement of beta-carbolinesand benzodiazepines, which modulate signal transduction at type A gamma-aminobutyricacid receptors located in brain synapses. The protein is conserved from yeastto mammals, with the most highly conserved domain consisting of seven contiguousresidues that constitute the hydrophobic binding site for medium- and long-cha...
DHCR24: This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductasewhich catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediatesduring cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequence thatdirects it to the endoplasmic reticulum membran...
DNAJB9: This gene is a member of the J protein family. J proteins functionin many cellular processes by regulating the ATPase activity of 70 kDa heatshock proteins. This gene is a member of the type 2 subgroup of DnaJ proteins....
ELK4: This gene is a member of the Ets family of transcription factors andof the ternary complex factor (TCF) subfamily. Proteins of the TCF subfamilyform a ternary complex by binding to the the serum response factor and theserum reponse ele...
ELL2: Involved in snRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleoplasm.Part of trans...
ELOVL5: This gene belongs to the ELO family. It is highly expressed in theadrenal gland and testis, and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that islocalized in the endoplasmic reticulum. This protein is involved in the elongationof long...
FADS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acidsthrough the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fattyacyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion products composed ofan N-terminal cytochrome b5-like domain and a C-termin...
FKBP5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin proteinfamily, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processesinvolving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-transprolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin.It is thought to mediate calcineur...
GNAI3: Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulatorsor transducers in various transmembrane signaling pathways. G proteins arecomposed of 3 units: alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes an alpha subunitand belongs to the G-alph...
GPD1L: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of sn-glycerol3-phosphate to glycerone phosphate. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm,associated with the plasma membrane, where it binds the so...
GSR: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family. This enzyme is a homodimeric flavoprotein. It is acentral enzyme of cellular antioxidant defense, and reduces oxidized glutathionedisulfide (GSSG) to the sulfhydryl form G...
GUCY1A1: Soluble guanylate cyclases are heterodimeric proteins that catalyzethe conversion of GTP to 3'',5''-cyclic GMP and pyrophosphate. The proteinencoded by this gene is an alpha subunit of this complex and it interactswith a...
H1-0: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octamer composed of pairs of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4). The chromatin fiber ...
HERC3: This gene encodes a member the HERC ubiquitin ligase family. The encodedprotein is located in the cytosol and binds ubiquitin via a HECT domain. Mutationsin this gene have been associ...
HMGCR: HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesisand is regulated via a negative feedback mechanism mediated by sterols andnon-sterol metabolites derived from mevalonate, the product of the reactioncatalyzed by reductase. Normally in mammalian cells this enzyme is suppressedby cholesterol derived from the internalization and degradation of low densitylipoprotein (LDL) via the ...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic process and farnesyl diphosphate biosynthetic process,me...
HOMER2: This gene encodes a member of the homer family of dendritic proteins.Members of this family regulate group 1 metabotrophic glutamate receptor function.The encoded protein is a postsynaptic d...
HPGD: This gene encodes a member of the short-chain nonmetalloenzyme alcoholdehydrogenase protein family. The encoded enzyme is responsible for the metabolismof prostaglandins, which function in a variety of physiologic and cellularprocesses such as inflamm...
HSD17B14: 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, such as HSD17B14, are primarilyinvolved in metabolism of steroids at the C17 position and also of othe...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversionof isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to its highly electrophilic isomer, dimethylallyldiphosphate (DMAPP), which are the substrates for the successive reactionthat results in the synthes...
INPP4B: INPP4B encodes the inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II, oneof the enzymes involved in phosphatidylinositol signaling pathways. This enzymeremoves the phosphate group at position 4 of the inositol ring fro...
INSIG1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein that regulatescholesterol metabolism, lipogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. The encodedprotein has six transmembrane helices which contain an effector protein bindingsite. It binds the sterol-sensing domains of sterol regulatory element-bindingprotein (SREBP) cleavage-activating protein (SCAP) and 3-hy...
IQGAP2: This gene encodes a member of the IQGAP family. The encoded proteincontains three IQ domains, one calponin homology domain, one Ras-GAP domainand one WW domain. This protein interacts with components of the cytoskeleton,with cell adhesion molecules, and with several sig...
ITGAV: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphasubunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light andheavy chains that comprise the alpha V subunit. This subunit associates withbeta 1, beta 3, bet...
KLK2: This gene encodes a member of the grandular kallikrein protein family.Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases that are clustered on chromosome19. Members of this family are involved in a diverse array of biological functions.The protein encoded by this gene is a highly active trypsin-like serine proteasethat selectively cleaves at arginine residues. This protein ...
KLK3: Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiologicalfunctions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicatedin carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other diseasebiomarkers. The gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members locatedin a cluster on chromosome 19. It encodes a single-chain glycoprotein, a proteasewhich is synthesized in the epithelial cells of the prostate gland, and isp...
KRT19: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin family.The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structuralintegrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hairkeratins. The type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arrangedin pairs of heterotypic keratin chains. Unlike its relat...
KRT8: This gene is a member of the type II keratin family clustered on thelong arm of chromosome 12. Type I and type II keratins heteropolymerize toform intermediate-sized filaments in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells. Theproduct of this gene typically dimerizes with keratin 18 to form an intermediatefilament in simple single-layere...
LIFR: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the type I cytokine receptorfamily. This protein combines with a high-affinity converter subunit, gp130,to form a receptor complex that mediates the action of the leukemia inhibitoryfactor, a polyfunctional cytokine that is involved in cellular differentiation,proliferation and survival in the adult and the embryo. Mutations in thisgene cause Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2, a ...
LMAN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane mannose-specific lectinthat cycles between the endoplasmic reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum-Golgiintermediate compartment, and cis-Golgi, functioning as a cargo receptor forglycoprotein transport. The protein has an N-terminal signal sequence, a calcium-dependentand pH-sensitive carbo...
MAF: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding, leucine zipper-containingtranscription factor that acts as a homodimer or as a heterodimer. Dependingon the binding site and binding partner, the encoded protein can be a transcriptionalactivator or repressor. This protein plays a role in the regulation of severalcellular processes, including embryonic lens ...
MAK: The product of this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase relatedto kinases involved in cell cycle regulation. Studies of the mouse and rathomologs have localized the kinase to the chromosomes during meiosis in spermatogenesis,specifically to the synaptonemal ...
MAP7: The product of this gene is a microtubule-associated protein that ispredominantly expressed in cells of epithelial origin. Microtubule-associatedproteins are thought to be involved in microtubule dynamics, which is essentialfor cell polarization and differentiation. This protein has been shown tobe able to stabilize microtubul...
MERTK: This gene is a member of the MER/AXL/TYRO3 receptor kinase family andencodes a transmembrane protein with two fibronectin type-III domains, twoIg-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like) domains, and one tyrosine kinase domain...
MYL12A: This gene encodes a nonsarcomeric myosin regulatory light chain. Thisprotein is activated by phosphorylation and regulates smooth muscle and non-musclecell contraction. This protein may also be involved in DNA damage repair bysequestering the transcriptional regulat...
NCOA4: This gene encodes an androgen receptor coactivator. The encoded proteininteracts with the androgen receptor in a ligand-dependent manner to enhanceits transcriptional activity. Chromosomal translocations between this geneand the ret tyrosine kinase ...
NDRG1: This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family whichbelongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by thisgene is a cytoplasmic protein involved in stress responses, hormone responses,cell growth, and differentiation. The encoded protein is necessary for p53-mediatedcaspase activation...
NGLY1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of an N(4)-(acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl)asparagine residue to N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminylamine and a peptide containingan aspartate residue. The encoded enz...
NKX3-1: This gene encodes a homeobox-containing transcription factor. Thistranscription factor functions as a negative regulator of epithelial cellgrowth in prostate tissue. Aberrant ex...
PA2G4: This gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that is involved in growthregulation. This protein is present in pre-ribosomal ribonucleoprotein complexesand may be involved in ribosome assembly and the regulation of intermediateand late steps of rRNA processing. This protein can interact with the cytoplasmicdomain of the ErbB3 receptor and may contribute to transducing growth regulatorysignals. This protein is...
PDLIM5: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that possess a100-amino acid PDZ domain at the N terminus and one to three LIM domains atthe C-terminus. This family member functions as a scaffold protein that tethersprotein kinases to the Z-disk ...
PGM3: This gene encodes a member of the phosphohexose mutase family. The encodedprotein mediates both glycogen formation and utilization by catalyzing theinterconversion of glucose-1-phosphate and glucose-6-phosphate. A non-synonymoussingle nucleo...
PIAS1: This gene encodes a member of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT(PIAS) family. PIAS proteins function as SUMO E3 ligases and play importantroles in many cellular processes by mediating the sumoylation of target proteins.This protein ...
PLPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phosphatidic acidphosphatase (PAP) family. PAPs convert phosphatidic acid to diacylglycerol,and function in synthesis of glycerolipids and in phospholipase D-mediatedsignal transduction. Th...
PMEPA1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a Smad interactingmotif (SIM). Expression of this gene is induced by androgens and transforminggrowth factor beta, and the encoded protein suppresses the androgen receptorand transforming growth factor beta signa...
PTK2B: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is involvedin calcium-induced regulation of ion channels and activation of the map kinasesignaling pathway. The encoded protein may represent an important signalingintermediate between neuropeptide-activated receptors or neurotransmittersthat increase calcium flux and the downstream signals that regulate neuronalactivity. The encoded protein undergoes rapid tyrosine phosphorylation andactivation in response to increases in the intracellular calcium concentration,nico...
PTPN21: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitoticcycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an N-terminal domain,similar to cytoskeletal- associated proteins including band 4.1, ezrin, merlin,and radixin. This PTP was shown to specia...
RAB4A: This gene is a member of the largest group in the Ras superfamily ofsmall GTPases, which regulate membrane trafficking. The encoded protein isassociated with early endosomes and is involved in their sorting and recycling.T...
RPS6KA3: This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) familyof serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalyticdomains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activatedkinas...
RRP12: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in rRNA processing.Located in cytos...
SAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family,and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of polyamine metabolism.It catalyzes the acetylation of spermidine and spermine, and is involved inthe regulation of the intracellul...
SCD: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, primarilythe synthesis of oleic acid. The protein belongs to the fatty acid desaturasefamily and is an integral membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum.Transcripts of approxim...
SEC24D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC24 subfamilyof the SEC23/SEC24 family, which is involved in vesicle trafficking. The encodedprotein has similarity to yeast Sec24p component of COPII. COPII is the coatprotein complex responsible for vesicle budding from the ER. This gene productis implicated in the shaping of the vesicle, and al...
SELENOP: This gene encodes a selenoprotein that is predominantly expressedin the liver and secreted into the plasma. This selenoprotein is unique inthat it contains multiple selenocysteine (Sec) residues per polypeptide (10in human), and accounts for most of the selenium in plasma. It has been implicatedas an extracellular antioxidant, and in the transport of selenium to extra-hepatictissues via apolipoprotein E receptor-2 (apoER2). Mice lacking this gene exhibitneurological dysfunction, suggesting its importance in normal brain function.Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination.The 3'' ...
SGK1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that plays an importantrole in cellular stress response. This kinase activates certain potassium,sodium, and chloride channels, suggesting an involvement in the regulationof processes such as cell survival, neuronal excitability, and r...
SLC26A2: The diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter is a transmembraneglycoprotein implicated in the pathogenesis of several human chondrodyspl...
SLC38A2: Enables neutral amino acid:sodium symporter activity. Involved inseveral processes, including amino acid transport; cellular response to arsenite...
SMS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the spermidine/spermin synthasefamily and catalyzes the production of spermine from spermidine. Pseudogenesof this gene are located on chromosomes 1, 5, 6 and X. Mutations in ...
SORD: Sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD; EC 1.1.1.14) catalyzes the interconversionof polyols and their corresponding ketoses, and together with aldose reductase(ALDR1; MIM 103880), makes up the sorbitol pathway that is believed to playan important role in the development of diabetic complications (summariz...
SPCS3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Involved in proteolysis andviral protein processing...
SPDEF: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ETS family of transcriptionfactors. It is highly expressed in the prostate epithelial cells, and functionsas an androgen-independent transactivator of prostate-specific antigen (PSA)promoter. Higher expression of this protein has also been reported in brain,breast, lung and ovarian tumors, c...
SRF: This gene encodes a ubiquitous nuclear protein that stimulates both cellproliferation and differentiation. It is a member of the MADS (MCM1, Agamous,Deficiens, and SRF) box superfamily of transcription factors. This proteinbinds to the serum response element (SRE) in the promoter region of targetgenes. This protein regulates the activity of many immediate-early genes,for example c-fos, and t...
SRP19: Enables 7S RNA binding activity. Contributes to ribosome binding activity.Predicted to be involved in SRP-dependent cotranslational protein targetingto membrane, signal s...
STEAP4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the STEAP (six transmembraneepithelial antigen of prostate) family, and resides in the golgi apparatus.It functions as a metalloreductase that has the ability to reduce both Fe(3+)to Fe(2+) and Cu(2+) to Cu(1+), using NAD(+) as acceptor. Studies in miceand human suggest ...
STK39: This gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase that is thought to functionin the cellular stress response pathway. The kinase is activated in responseto hypotonic stress, leading to phosphorylation of several cation-chloride-coupledcotransporters. The catalytical...
TMEM50A: This gene is located in the RH gene locus, between the RHD and RHCEgenes. The function of its protein product is unknown; however, its sequencehas potential transmembrane domains suggesting that it may be an integralmembrane protein...
TMPRSS2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine protease family.The encoded protein contains a type II transmembrane domain, a receptor classA domain, a scavenger receptor cysteine-rich domain and a protease domain.Serine proteases are known to be involved in many physiological and pathologicalprocesses. This gene was demonstrated to be up-regulated by androgenic hormonesin prostate cancer cells and down-regulated in androgen-independent prostatecancer tissue. The protease domain of this protein is thou...
TNFAIP8: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved inapoptotic process. Involved in positive regulation...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity.Involved in B cell differentiation. Located...
TSC22D1: This gene encodes a member of the TSC22 domain family of leucinezipper transcription factors. The encoded protein is stimulated by transforminggrowth factor beta, and regulates the transcription of multiple genes includingC-type natriuretic peptide. The encoded protein may play a critical role intumor suppre...
UAP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin UDP-N-acetylglucosamine biosynthetic proce...
UBE2I: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activatingenzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes...
UBE2J1: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activatingenzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-proteinlig...
VAPA: The protein encoded by this gene is a type IV membrane protein. It ispresent in the plasma membrane and intracellular vesicles. It may also beassociated with the cytoskeleton. This protein may function in vesicle trafficki...
XRCC5: The protein encoded by this gene is the 80-kilodalton subunit of theKu heterodimer protein which is also known as ATP-dependant DNA helicase IIor DNA repair protein XRCC5. Ku is the DNA-binding component of the DNA-dependentprotein kinase, and it functions together with the DNA ligase IV-XRCC4 complexin the repair of DNA double-strand break by non-homologous end joini...
XRCC6: The p70/p80 autoantigen is a nuclear complex consisting of two subunitswith molecular masses of approximately 70 and 80 kDa. The complex functionsas a single-stranded DNA-dependent ATP-dependent helicase. The complex maybe involved in the repair of nonhomolog...
ZBTB10: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory regionsequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved ...
ZMIZ1: This gene encodes a member of the PIAS (protein inhibitor of activatedSTAT) family of proteins. The encoded protein regulates the activity of varioustranscription factors, including the androgen receptor, Smad3/4, and p53.The encoded protein...
////
ABCB1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in mu...
ABCB4: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP su...
ABCB9: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP...
ABCC5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions in the c...
ABCC8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This pr...
ABCD1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fa...
ABCD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters wh...
ABCD3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fat...
ACAA1: This gene encodes an enzyme operative in the beta-oxidation system of the peroxisomes. Deficiency ...
ACOT8: The protein encoded by this gene is a peroxisomal thioesterase that appears to be involved more in the oxidation of fatty acids rather...
ACOX1: The protein encoded by this gene is the first enzyme of the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway, which catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-CoAs to 2-trans-enoyl-CoAs. It donates electrons directly to molecular oxygen...
ACSL1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, ...
ACSL4: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty ...
ACSL5: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters,...
ALB: This gene encodes the most abundant protein in human blood. This protein functions in the regulation of blood plasma colloid osmotic pressure and acts as a carrier protein for a wide range of endogenous molecules including hormones, fatty acids, and...
ALDH1A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenase in the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes in the liver, cytosolic and...
ALDH9A1: This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. It has a high activity for oxidation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde and othe...
ATXN1: The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, with five genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presents with retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the `pure' cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogen...
BCL10: This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The protein encoded by this gene contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and has been shown to induce apoptosis and to activate NF-kappaB. This protein is reported to interact with other CARD domain containing proteins including CARD9, 1...
CACNA1B: The protein encoded by this gene is the pore-forming subunit of an N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel, which controls neurotransmitter release from neurons. The encoded protein forms a complex with alp...
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cell recognition; positive regulation of cytokine production; and suscept...
CAT: This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic ...
CDK7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cel...
CEL: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein secreted from the pancreas into the digestive tract and from the lactating mammary gland into human milk. The physiological role of this protein is in cholesterol and lipid-soluble vitamin ester hydrolysis and absorption. This encoded protein promotes large chylomicron production i...
CLN6: This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative d...
CLN8: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein belonging to a family of proteins containing TLC domains, which are postulated to function in lipid synthesis, transport, or sensing. The protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and may recycle between...
CNBP: This gene encodes a nucleic-acid binding protein with seven zinc-finger domains. The protein has a preference for binding single stranded DNA and RNA. The protein functions in cap-independent translation of ornithine decarbo...
CRABP1: This gene encodes a specific binding protein for a vitamin A family member and is thought to play an important role in retinoic acid-mediated differentiation and proliferation p...
CRABP2: This gene encodes a member of the retinoic acid (RA, a form of vitamin A) binding protein family and lipocalin/cytosolic fatty-acid binding protein family. The protein is a cytosol-to-nuclear shuttling protein, which facilitates ...
CRAT: This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitine acyltransferase family and a key metabolic pathway enzyme which plays an important role in energy homeostasis and fat metabolism. This enzyme catalyzes the re...
CTBP1: This gene encodes a protein that binds to the C-terminus of adenovirus E1A proteins. This phosphoprotein is a transcriptional repressor and may play a role during cellular proliferation. This protein and the product of ...
CTPS1: This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the catalytic conversion of UTP (uridine triphosphate) to CTP (cytidine triphospate). This reaction is an important step in the biosynthesi...
DHCR24: This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductase which catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediates during cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequ...
DHRS3: Short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs), such as DHRS3, catalyze the oxidation/reduction of ...
DIO1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It catalyzes the activation, as well as the inactivation of thyroid hormone by outer and inner ring deiodination, respectively. The activation reaction involves the conversion of the prohormone thyroxine (3,5,3',5'-tetraiodothyronine, T4), secreted by the thyroid gland, to the bioactive thyroid hormone (3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, T3) by 5'-deiodination. This pr...
DLG4: This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family. It heteromultimerizes with another MAGUK protein, DLG2, and is recruited into NMDA receptor and potassium channel clus...
ECH1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The gene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratases of several species, particularly within a conserved domain characteristic of these proteins. The encoded protein, which contains a C-terminal peroxisomal target...
ECI2: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The protein encoded is a key mitochondrial enzyme involved in beta-oxidation of unsaturated fatty acids. It catalyzes the ...
EHHADH: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme and is one of the four enzymes of the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway. The N-terminal region of the encoded protein contains enoyl-CoA hydra...
ELOVL5: This gene belongs to the ELO family. It is highly expressed in the adrenal gland and testis, and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. Thi...
EPHX2: This gene encodes a member of the epoxide hydrolase family. The protein, found in both the cytosol and peroxisomes, binds to specific epoxides and conv...
ERCC1: The product of this gene functions in the nucleotide excision repair pathway, and is required for the repair of DNA lesions such as those induced by UV light or formed by electrophilic compounds including cisplatin. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the XPF endonuclease (also known as ERCC4), and the heterodimeric endonuclease catalyzes the 5' incision in the proce...
ERCC3: This gene encodes an ATP-dependent DNA helicase that functions in nucleotide excision repair. The encoded protein is a subunit of basal transcription factor 2 (TFIIH) and, ther...
ESR2: This gene encodes a member of the family of estrogen receptors and superfamily of nuclear receptor transcription factors. The gene product contains an N-terminal DNA binding domain and C-terminal ligand binding domain and is localized to the nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. Upon binding to 17beta-...
FABP6: This gene encodes the ileal fatty acid binding protein. Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. FABP6 and ...
FADS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase (FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acids through the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fatty acyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion pro...
FDPS: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of geranyl pyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate from isopentenyl pyrophosphate and dimethylallyl pyrophosphate. The resulting product, farnesyl pyrophosphate, is a key intermediate in cholesterol and sterol biosynthesis, a substrate for protein farnesyla...
FIS1: The balance between fission and fusion regulates the morphology of mitochondria. TTC11 is a com...
GNPAT: This gene encodes an enzyme located in the peroxisomal membrane which is essential to the synthesis of ether phospholipids. Mutati...
GSTK1: This gene encodes a member of the kappa class of the glutathione transferase superfamily of enzymes that function in cellular detoxification. The encoded protein is localized...
HAO2: This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidase activity. The encoded protein localizes to th...
HMGCL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the final step of leucine degradation and plays a...
HRAS: This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic GTPase activity. This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and...
HSD11B2: There are at least two isozymes of the corticosteroid 11-beta-dehydrogenase, a microsomal enzyme complex responsible for the interconversion of cortisol and cortisone. The type I isozyme has both 11-beta-dehydrogenase (cortisol to cortisone) and 11-oxoreductase (cortisone to cortisol) activities. The type II isozyme, encoded by this gene, has only 11-beta-dehydrogenase activity. In aldosteron...
HSD17B11: Short-chain alcohol dehydrogenases, such as HSD17B11, metabolize se...
HSD17B4: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids. It also acts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediates from both straight-chain and 2-methyl-branc...
HSD3B7: This gene encodes an enzyme which is involved in the initial stages of the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol and a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated endoplasmic ret...
IDE: This gene encodes a zinc metallopeptidase that degrades intracellular insulin, and thereby terminates insulins activity, as well as participating in intercellular peptide signalling by degrading diverse peptides such as glucagon, amylin, bradykinin, and kallidin. The preferential affinity of this enzyme for insulin results in insulin-mediated inhibition of the degradation of other peptides such a...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+...
IDH2: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matri...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to its highly electrophilic isomer, dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP), which are the substrates fo...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in peroxisome. Predicted to ...
ITGB1BP1: The cytoplasmic domains of integrins are essential for cell adhesion. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the beta1 integrin cytoplasmic domain. The interaction between this protein and beta1 integrin is highly specific. Two isoforms of this protein are derived from alternatively spliced transcript...
LONP2: In human, peroxisomes function primarily to catalyze fatty acid beta-oxidation and, as a by-product, produce hydrogen peroxide and superoxide. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent protease that likely plays a role in maintaining overall peroxisome h...
MLYCD: The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fa...
MSH2: This locus is frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC). When cloned, it was discovered to be a human homolog of the E. coli mismatch repa...
MVP: This gene encodes the major component of the vault complex. Vaults are multi-subunit ribonucleoprotein structures that may be involved in nucleo-cytoplasmic transport. The encoded protein may play a role in multiple cellular processes by...
NR1I2: This gene product belongs to the nuclear receptor superfamily, members of which are transcription factors characterized by a ligand-binding domain and a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcriptional regulator of the cytochrome P450 gene CYP3A4, binding to the response element of the CYP3A4 promo...
NUDT19: Predicted to enable magnesium ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in purine nucleoside ...
PABPC1: This gene encodes a poly(A) binding protein. The protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm and binds to the 3' poly(A) tail of eukaryotic messenger RNAs via RNA-recognition motifs. The binding of...
PEX11A: This gene is a member of the PEX11 family, which is composed of membrane elongation factors involved in regulation of peroxisome maintenance and proliferation. This gene prod...
PEX11B: The protein encoded by this gene facilitates peroxisomal proliferation and interacts with PEX19. The encoded protein is ...
PEX13: This gene encodes a peroxisomal membrane protein that binds the type 1 peroxisomal targeting signal receptor via a SH3 domain located in the cy...
PEX14: This gene encodes an essential component of the peroxisomal import machinery. The protein is integrated into peroxisome membranes with its C-terminus exposed to the cytosol, and interacts with t...
PEX2: This gene encodes an integral peroxisomal membrane protein required for peroxisome biogenesis. The protein is thought to be involved in peroxisomal matrix p...
PEX5: The product of this gene binds to the C-terminal PTS1-type tripeptide peroxisomal targeting signal (SKL-type) and plays an essential role in peroxisomal protein import. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biog...
PEX6: This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) family of ATPases. This member is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein, which plays a direct role in peroxisomal protein import and is required for...
PRDX1: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein may play an antioxidant protective role in ...
PRDX5: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein interacts with peroxisome receptor 1 and plays an antioxidant protective role in different tissues under normal co...
RDH11: The protein encoded by this gene is an NADPH-dependent retinal reductase and a shor...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predicted to b...
RXRG: This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the antiproliferative effects of retinoic acid (RA). This receptor forms dimers with the retinoic acid,...
SCGB1A1: This gene encodes a member of the secretoglobin family of small secreted proteins. The encoded protein has been implicated in numerous functio...
SCP2: This gene encodes two proteins: sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) and sterol carrier protein 2 (SCP2), as a result of transcription initiation from 2 independently regulated promoters. The transcript initiated from the proximal promoter encodes the longer SCPx protein, and the transcript initiated from the distal promoter encodes the shorter SCP2 protein, with the 2 proteins sharing a common...
SEMA3C: This gene encodes a secreted glycoprotein that belongs to the semaphorin class 3 family of neuronal guidance cues. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal sema domain, integrin and immunoglobulin-like domains, and a C-terminal basic domain. Homodimerization and proteolytic cleavag...
SERPINA6: This gene encodes an alpha-globulin protein with corticosteroid-binding properties. This is the major transport protein for glucorticoids and progesti...
SIAH1: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the seven in absentia homolog (SIAH) family. The protein is an E3 ligase and is involved in ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated degradation of specific proteins. The activity of this ubiquitin ...
SLC23A2: The absorption of vitamin C into the body and its distribution to organs requires two sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters. This gene enc...
SLC25A17: This gene encodes a peroxisomal membrane protein that belongs to the family of mitochondrial solute carriers. ...
SLC25A19: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is a member of the solute carrier family. Although this protein was initially thought to be the mitochondrial deoxynucleotide carrier involved in the uptake of deoxynucleotides into the matrix of the mitochondria, further studies have demonstrated that this protein ...
SLC25A4: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix ...
SLC27A2: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. Thi...
SLC35B2: Sulfotransferases (e.g., SULT4A1; MIM 608359) use an activated form of sulfate, 3-prime-phosphoadenosine 5-prime-phosphosulfate (PAPS), as a common sulfate donor for sulfation of glycoproteins, ...
SMARCC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins, whose members display helicase and ATPase activities and which are thought to regulate transcription of cert...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen...
SOD2: This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family. It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetramer and binds one manganese ion per subunit. This protein binds to the superoxide byproducts of oxidative phosphorylation ...
STS: This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. It belongs to the sulfatase family and hydrolyzes several 3-beta-hydroxysteroid sulfates, which serve as metab...
SULT2B1: Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The ge...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA whic...
TSPO: Present mainly in the mitochondrial compartment of peripheral tissues, the protein encoded by this gene interacts with some benzodiazepines and has different affinities than its endogenous counterpart. The protein is a key...
TTR: This gene encodes one of the three prealbumins, which include alpha-1-antitrypsin, transthyretin and orosomucoid. The encoded protein, transthyretin, is a homo-tetrameric carrier protein, which transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. It is also involved in the transport of retinol (vitamin A) in the plasma by associating with retinol-binding protein. The protein may also be involved in ot...
UGT2B17: This gene encodes a member of the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid from uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid to a div...
VPS4B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AAA protein family (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities), and is the homolog of the yeast Vps4 protein. In humans, two paralogs of the yeast protein have been identified. The former share a high degree of aa sequence similarity with each other, and also...
YWHAH: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants an...
////
ACACA: Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. There are two ACC forms, alpha and beta, encoded by two different genes. ACC-alpha is highly ...
ACTR2: The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex ...
ACTR3: The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is...
ADCY2: This gene encodes a member of the family of adenylate cyclases, which are membrane-associated enzymes that catalyze the formation of the sec...
AKT1: This gene encodes one of the three members of the human AKT serine-threonine protein kinase family which are often referred to as protein kinase B alpha, beta, and gamma. These highly similar AKT proteins all have an N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain, a serine/threonine-specific kinase domain and a C-terminal regulatory domain. These proteins are phosphorylated by phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). AKT/PI3K forms a key component of many signalling pathways that involve the binding of membrane-bound ligands such as receptor tyrosine kinases, G-protein coupled receptors, and integrin-linked kinase. These AKT proteins therefore regulate a wide variety of cellular functions including cell proliferation, survival, metabolism, and angiogenesis in both normal and malignant cells. AKT proteins are recruited to the cell membrane by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) after phosphorylation of...
AKT1S1: AKT1S1 is a proline-rich substrate of AKT (MIM 164730) that binds 14-3-3 protei...
AP2M1: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric coat assembly protein complex 2 (AP2), which belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. The encoded protein is required for the activity of a vacuolar ATPase, which i...
ARF1: ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) is a member of the human ARF gene family. The family members encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products, including 6 ARF proteins and...
ARHGDIA: This gene encodes a protein that plays a key role in the regulation of signaling through Rho GTPases. The encoded protein inhibits the disassociation of Rho family members from GDP (guanine diphosphate), thereby maintaining these f...
ARPC3: This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been conserved thro...
ATF1: This gene encodes an activating transcription factor, which belongs to the ATF subfamily and bZIP (basic-region leucine zipper) family. It influences cellular physiologic processes by regulating the expression of downstream target genes, which are related to growth, survival, and other cellular activities. This protein is phosphorylated at serine 63 in its kinase-inducible domain by ...
CAB39: Enables kinase binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Involved in intracellular signal transduction; peptidyl-serine phosphorylation...
CAB39L: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Predicted to be inv...
CALR: Calreticulin is a highly conserved chaperone protein which resides primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum, and is involved in a variety of cellular processes, among them, cell adhesion. Additionally, it functions in protein folding quality control and cal...
CAMK4: The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This enz...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conserved protein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting factor (MPF), which is essential for G1/S and G2/M phase transitions of eukaryotic cell cycle. Mitotic cyclin...
CDK2: This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that participate in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is the catalytic subunit of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase complex, which regulates progression thro...
CDK4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression. The activity of this kinase is restricted to ...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of this gene is tightly controlled by the tumor suppressor protein p53, through which this protein mediates the p53-dependent cell cycle G1 phase arrest in respons...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein binds to and prevents the activation of cyclin E-CDK2 or cyclin D-CDK4 complexes, and thus controls the cell cy...
CFL1: The protein encoded by this gene can polymerize and depolymerize F-actin and G-actin in a pH-dependent manner. Increased phosphorylation of this protein by LIM kinase aids in Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoske...
CLTC: Clathrin is a major protein component of the cytoplasmic face of intracellular organelles, called coated vesicles and coated pits. These specialized organelles a...
CSNK2B: This gene encodes the beta subunit of casein kinase II, a ubiquitous protein kinase which regulates metabolic pathways, signal transduction, transcription, translation, and replication. The enzyme is composed of three subunits, alpha, alp...
CXCR4: This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derived factor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is located on the cell surface. It acts with the CD4 protein to support HIV entry into...
DAPP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosph...
DDIT3: This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. Th...
DUSP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Dif...
E2F1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcription factors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycle and action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transforming proteins of small DNA tumor viruses. The E2F proteins contain several evolutionally conserved domains found in most members of the family. These domains include a DNA binding ...
ECSIT: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding activity. Involved in regulation of ...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family. EGFR is a cell surface protein that binds to epidermal growth factor, thus...
EIF4E: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex, which recognizes the 7-methylguanosine cap structure at the 5' end of messenger RNAs. The encoded protein aids in translation initiation by recruiting ribosomes to the ...
FASLG: This gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily. The primary function of the encoded transmembrane protein is the induction of apoptosis triggered by binding to FAS. The FAS/FASLG signaling pathway is essential for immune system regul...
FGF17: This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. Member of the FGF family possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryonic development cell growth, morphogenesis, t...
FGF22: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryoni...
FGF6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, c...
GNA14: This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding, or G protein family. G proteins are heterotrimers consisting of alpha, beta and gamma subunits. The encoded protein i...
GNGT1: This gene encodes the gamma subunit of transducin, a guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) that is found in rod outer...
GRB2: The protein encoded by this gene binds the epidermal growth factor receptor and contains one SH2 domain and two SH3 domains. Its two SH3 domains direct complex formation with proline-rich regions of other protei...
GRK2: This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor kinase family of proteins. The encoded protein phosphorylates the beta-adrenergic receptor as well as a wide range of other substrates including non-GPCR cell surface r...
GSK3B: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase belonging to the glycogen synthase kinase subfamily. It is a negative regulator of glucose homeostas...
HRAS: This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic GTPase activity. This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and...
HSP90B1: This gene encodes a member of a family of adenosine triphosphate(ATP)-metabolizing molecular chaperones with roles in stabilizing and folding other proteins. The encoded protein is localized to melanosome...
IL2RG: The protein encoded by this gene is an important signaling component of many interleukin receptors, including those of interleukin -2, -4, -7 and -21, and is thus ref...
IL4: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine produced by activated T cells. This cytokine is a ligand for interleukin 4 receptor. The interleukin 4 receptor also binds to IL13, which may contribute to many overlapping functions of this cytokine and IL13. STAT6, a signal transducer and activator of transcription, has been shown to play a central role in mediating the immune regulatory signal of this cytokine. This gene, IL3, IL5, IL13, and CSF2 form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5q, with this gene particularly close to IL13. This gene, IL13 and IL5 are found to be regulated coordinately by several long-range regulato...
IRAK4: This gene encodes a kinase that activates NF-kappaB in both the Toll-like receptor (TLR) and T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling pathways. The protein is essential for mo...
ITPR2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor family, whose members are second messenger intracellular calcium release channels. These proteins mediate a rise in cytoplasmic calcium in response to receptor activated production of inositol triphosphate. Inositol triphosphate receptor-mediated signaling is involved in many p...
LCK: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs). The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and maturation of developing T-cells. It contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains whi...
MAP2K3: The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated by mitogenic and environmental stress, and participates in the MAP kinase-mediated signaling cascade. It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK14/p38-MAPK. This kinase can be activated by insulin, and is nec...
MAP2K6: This gene encodes a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which functions as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple bioch...
MAP3K7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase mediates the signaling transduction induced by TGF beta and morphogenetic protein (BMP), and controls a variety of cell functions including transcription regulation and apoptosis. In res...
MAPK1: This gene encodes a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation...
MAPK10: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as integration points for multiple biochemical signals, and thus are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes, such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is specifically expressed in a subset of neurons in the nervou...
MAPK8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various cell stimuli, and targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-ea...
MAPK9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to various ...
MAPKAP1: This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to the yeast SIN1 protein, a stress-activated protein kinase. Alternatively spliced transc...
MKNK1: This gene encodes a Ser/Thr protein kinase that interacts with, and is activated by ERK1 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, and thus may play a role in the response to en...
MKNK2: This gene encodes a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMK) Ser/Thr protein kinase family, which belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. This protein contains conserved DLG (asp-leu-gly) and ENIL (glu-asn-ile-leu) motifs, and an N-terminal polybasic region which binds importin A and the translation factor scaffold protein eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). This protein is one of the downstream kinases activated by mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kin...
MYD88: This gene encodes a cytosolic adapter protein that plays a central role in the innate and adaptive immune response. This protein functions as an essential signal transducer in the interleukin-1 and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways. These pathways...
NCK1: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the signaling and transforming proteins containing Src homology 2 and 3 (SH2 and SH3) domains. It is located in the cytoplasm and...
NFKBIB: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which inhibit NF-kappa-B by complexing with, and trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on these prote...
NGF: This gene is a member of the NGF-beta family and encodes a secreted protein which homodimerizes and is incorporated into a larger complex. This protein has nerve growth stimulating activity and the complex is involved i...
NOD1: This gene encodes a member of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family of proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in innate immunity by acting as a pattern-recognition receptor (PRR) that binds bacterial peptidoglycans and initiates inflammation. This protein has also been implicated in the immune response to viral and parasitic infection. Major stru...
PAK4: PAK proteins, a family of serine/threonine p21-activating kinases, include PAK1, PAK2, PAK3 and PAK4. PAK proteins are critical effectors that link Rho GTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling. They serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins Cdc42 and Rac and have...
PDK1: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is a mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of homeostasis of carbohydra...
PFN1: This gene encodes a member of the profilin family of small actin-binding proteins. The encoded protein plays an important role in actin dynamics by regulating actin polymerization i...
PIK3R3: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol and similar compounds, which then serve as second messengers in growth signaling pathways. PI3K is composed of a c...
PIKFYVE: Phosphorylated derivatives of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) regulate cytoskeletal functions, membrane trafficking, and receptor signaling by recruiting protein complexes to cell- and endosomal-membranes. Humans have multiple PtdIns proteins that differ by the degree and position of phosphorylation of the inositol ring. This gene encodes an enzyme (PIKfyve; also known as phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase type III or PIPKIII) that phosphorylates the D-5 position in PtdIns and phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PtdIns3P) to make PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)biphosphate. The D-5 position also can ...
PIN1: Peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerases (PPIases) catalyze the cis/trans isomerization of peptidyl-prolyl peptide bonds. This gene encodes one of the PPIases, which specifically binds to phosphorylated ser/thr-pro motifs to catalytically regulate the post-phosphorylation conformation of its substrates. The conformational regulation...
PITX2: This gene encodes a member of the RIEG/PITX homeobox family, which is in the bicoid class of homeodomain proteins. The encoded protein acts as a transcription factor and regulates procollagen lysyl hydroxylase gene expression. This protein plays a role in the terminal differentiation of somatotroph and lactotroph cell phenotypes, is involved in the developme...
PLA2G12A: Secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) enzymes liberate arachidonic acid from phospholipids for production of eicosanoids and exert a variety of physiologic and ...
PLCB1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor an...
PLCG1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of receptor-mediated tyrosine kinase activators...
PPP1CA: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three catalytic subunits of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). This broadly expressed gene encodes the alpha subunit of the PP1 complex that associates with over 200 regulatory proteins to form holoenzymes which dephosphorylate their biological targets with high specificity. PP1 is a serine/threonine specific protein phosphatase known to...
PPP2R1B: This gene encodes a constant regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant reg...
PRKAA2: The protein encoded by this gene is a catalytic subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic ...
PRKAG1: The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to ce...
PRKAR2A: cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subuni...
PRKCB: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a...
PTEN: This gene was identified as a tumor suppressor that is mutated in a large number of cancers at high frequency. The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase. It contains a tensin like domain as well as a catalytic domain similar to that of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatases. Unlike most of the protein tyrosine phosphatases, this protein preferentially dephosphorylates phosphoinositide substrates. It negativel...
PTPN11: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains two tandem Src homology-2 domains, which func...
RAC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superfamily appear to regulate a diverse...
RAF1: This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf). The encoded protein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstream of the Ras family of membrane associated GTPases to which it binds directly. Once activated, the cellular RAF1 protein can phosphorylate to activate the dual specificity ...
RALB: This gene encodes a GTP-binding protein that belongs to the small GTPase superfamily and Ras family of prot...
RIPK1: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein plays a role in inflammation and cell death in re...
RIT1: This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases. The encoded protein is involved in regulating p38 MAPK-dependent signaling cascades re...
RPS6KA1: This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 nonidentical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, includi...
RPS6KA3: This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates,...
RPTOR: This gene encodes a component of a signaling pathway that regulates cell growth in response to nutrient and insulin levels. The encoded protein forms a stoichiometric complex with the mTOR kinase, and also associates with euk...
SFN: This gene encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein. The encoded protein binds to translation and initiation factors and ...
SLA: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell differentiation; innate immune response; and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine...
SLC2A1: This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cell membrane and on the ce...
SMAD2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein mediates the signal of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and thus regulates multiple cellular processes, such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. This protein is recruit...
SQSTM1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that binds ubiquitin and regulates activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) signaling pathway. The protein functions as a scaffolding/adaptor protein in concert with TNF re...
STAT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where...
TBK1: The NF-kappa-B (NFKB) complex of proteins is inhibited by I-kappa-B (IKB) proteins, which inactivate NFKB by trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on the IKB proteins by IKB kinases marks them for destruction vi...
THEM4: Protein kinase B (PKB) is a major downstream target of receptor tyrosine kinases that signal via phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Upon cell stimulation, PKB is translocated to the plasma me...
TIAM1: This gene encodes a RAC1-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). GEFs mediate the exchange of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) for guanosine triphosphate (GTP). The binding of GTP induces a conformational change in RAC1 that allows downstream effectors to bind and transduce a signal. This gene thus regulates RAC1 signaling pathways that affect cell shape, migration, adhesion, growth, survival, and polarity, as well as influencing actin cytoskeletal formation, endocytosis, and membrane tra...
TNFRSF1A: This gene encodes a member of the TNF receptor superfamily of proteins. The encoded receptor is found in membrane-bound and soluble forms that interact with membrane-bound and soluble forms, respectively, of its ligand, tumor necrosis factor alpha. Binding of membrane-bound tumor necrosis factor alpha to the membrane-bound receptor induces receptor trimerization and acti...
TRAF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate the signal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. This protein directly interacts with TNF receptors, and forms a heterodimeric complex with TRAF1. This protein is required for TNF-alpha-mediated activation of MAPK8/JNK and NF-kappaB. The protein complex formed by this protein and TRAF1 interacts...
TRIB3: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative protein kinase that is induced by the transcription factor NF-kappaB. The encoded protein is a negative regulator of NF-kappaB and can also s...
TSC2: This gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes the growth inhibitory protein tuberin. Tuberin interacts with hamartin to form the TSC protein complex which functions in the control of cell growth...
UBE2D3: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzy...
UBE2N: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiqui...
VAV3: This gene is a member of the VAV gene family. The VAV proteins are guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rho family GTPases that activate pathways leading to actin cytoskeletal rearrangements and transcriptional ...
YWHAB: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the 14-3-3 family of proteins, members of which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both ...
////
ABCA1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20,W...
ABCA2: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, ...
ABCA3: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteinstransport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.  ABCgenes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (...
ABCA4: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20,White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicell...
ABCA5: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20,and White). T...
ABCA6: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfam...
ABCA8: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/...
ABCA9: This gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC)transporters and the encoded protein contains two transmembrane domains andtwo nucleotide binding folds. ABC proteins transport various molecules acrossextra- and intracellular membranes. ABC gen...
ABCD1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesacross extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into sevendistinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This proteinis a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal importof fa...
ABCD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesacross extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into sevendistinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This proteinis a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal importof fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomalABC transporters are half transporters wh...
ABCD3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesacross extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into sevendistinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This proteinis a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal importof fat...
ABCG4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ATP-binding cassette(ABC) transporter superfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules acrossextra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven disti...
ABCG8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesacross extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into sevendistinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This proteinis a member of the White subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene functi...
ACSL1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, ...
ACSL5: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convertfree long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters,...
AGXT: This gene is expressed only in the liver and the encoded protein islocalized mostly in the peroxisomes, where it is involved ...
AKR1D1: The enzyme encoded by this gene is responsible for the catalysis ofthe 5-beta-reduction of bile acid intermediates and steroid hormones carryinga delta(4)-3-one structure. Deficien...
ALDH1A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenasefamily. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenasein the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenaseisozymes in the liver, cytosolic and...
ALDH8A1: This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family ofproteins. The encoded protein has been implicated in the synthesis of 9-cis-retinoicacid and in the breakdown of the amino acid tryptophan. This enzyme converts9-cis-retinal...
ALDH9A1: This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins.It has a high activity for oxidation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde and othe...
AMACR: This gene encodes a racemase. The encoded enzyme interconverts pristanoyl-CoAand C27-bile acylCoAs between their (R)- and (S)-stereoisomers. The conversionto the (S)-stereoisomers is necessary for degradation of these substratesby peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Encoded proteins from this locus localize tobot...
APOA1: This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein componentof high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma. The encoded preproprotein isproteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which promotes cholesterolefflux from tissues to the liver for excretion, and is a cofactor for lecithinchole...
AQP9: The aquaporins are a family of water-selective membrane channels. Thisgene encodes a member of a subset of aquaporins called the aquaglyceroporins.This protein allows passage of a broad range of noncharged solutes and alsostimulates ur...
AR: The androgen receptor gene is more than 90 kb long and codes for a proteinthat has 3 major functional domains: the N-terminal domain, DNA-binding domain,and androgen-binding domain. The protein functions as a steroid-hormone activatedtranscription factor. Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociatesfrom accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and thenstimulates transc...
ATXN1: The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneousgroup of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degenerationof the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been dividedinto three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, withfive genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presentswith retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the `pure''cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogen...
BBOX1: This gene encodes gamma butyrobetaine hydroxylase which catalyzes theformation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine, the last step in th...
BCAR3: Breast tumors are initially dependent on estrogens for growth and progressionand can be inhibited by anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen. However, breastcancers progress to become anti-estrogen resistant. Breast cancer anti-estrogenresistance gene 3 was identified in the search for genes involved in the developmentof est...
BMP6: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein ...
CAT: This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defenseagainst oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in theperoxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygenspecies hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic...
CH25H: This is an intronless gene that is involved in cholesterol and lipidmetabolism. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and contains clustersof histidine residues ...
CROT: This gene encodes a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferasefamily. The encoded protein converts 4,8-dimethylnonanoyl-CoA to its correspondingcarnitine ester. This transesterification occurs in the peroxi...
CYP27A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze manyreactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroidsand other lipids. This mitochondrial protein ox...
CYP39A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze manyreactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroid...
CYP46A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze manyreactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroidsand other...
CYP7A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactionsinvolved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and otherlipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein cataly...
CYP7B1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactionsinvolved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and otherlipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the first reactio...
CYP8B1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactionsinvolved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and otherlipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein cat...
DHCR24: This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductasewhich catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediatesduring cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequ...
DIO1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinasefamily. It catalyzes the activation, as well as the inactivation of thyroidhormone by outer and inner ring deiodination, respectively. The activationreaction involves the conversion of the prohormone thyroxine (3,5,3'',5''-tetraiodothyronine,T4), secreted by the thyroid gland, to the bioactive thyroid hormone (3,5,3''-triiodothyronine,T3) by 5''-deiodination. This pr...
DIO2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinasefamily. It catalyzes the conversion of prohormone thyroxine (3,5,3'',5''-tetraiodothyronine,T4) to the bioactive thyroid hormone (3,5,3''-triiodothyronine, T3) by outerring 5''-deiodination. This gene is widely expressed, including in thyroidand brain. It is thought to be responsible for the ''local'' production ofT3, and thus important in influencing thyroid hormone action in these tissues.It has also been reported to be highly expressed in thyroids of patients withGraves disease, and in follicular adenomas. The intrathyroidal T4 to T3 conversionby this enzyme may contribute significantly to the relative increase...
EFHC1: This gene encodes an EF-hand-containing calcium binding protein. Theencoded protein likely plays a role in calcium homeostasis. Mutations in ...
EPHX2: This gene encodes a member of the epoxide hydrolase family. The protein,found in both the cytosol and peroxisomes, binds to specific epoxides andconv...
FADS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acidsthrough the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fattyacyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion pro...
FADS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acidsthrough the introduction of double bonds between defined carbons of the fattyacyl chain. FADS family members are considered fusion products composed ofan N-terminal...
FDXR: This gene encodes a mitochondrial flavoprotein that initiates electrontransport for cytochromes P45...
GC: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the albumin gene family. Itis a multifunctional protein found in plasma, ascitic fluid, cerebrospinalfluid and on the sur...
GCLM: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase,is the first rate limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consistsof two subunits, a heavy cat...
GNMT: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversionof S-adenosyl-L-methionine (along with glycine) to S-adenosyl-L-homocysteineand sarcosine. This protein is found in the cytoplasm and acts as a homotetramer.D...
GNPAT: This gene encodes an enzyme located in the peroxisomal membrane whichis essential to the synthesis of ether phospholipids. Mutati...
GSTK1: This gene encodes a member of the kappa class of the glutathione transferasesuperfamily of enzymes that function in cellular detoxification. The encodedprotein is localized...
HACL1: Enables several functions, including 2-hydroxy-3-methylhexadecanoyl-CoAlyase activity; ATP binding activity; and cation binding activity. ...
HAO1: This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidaseactivity yet differ in encoded protein amino acid sequence, tissue expressionand substrate preference. Subcellular location of the encoded protein is theperoxisome. Specifically, this g...
HSD17B11: Short-chain alcohol dehydrogenases, such as HSD17B11, metabolizese...
HSD17B4: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that isinvolved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids. It alsoacts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediates fromboth straight-chain and 2-methyl-branc...
HSD17B6: The protein encoded by this gene has both oxidoreductase and epimeraseactivities and is involved in androgen catabolism. The oxidoreductase activitycan convert 3 alpha...
HSD3B1: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidativeconversion of delta-5-3-beta-hydroxysteroid precursors into delta-4-ketoste...
HSD3B7: This gene encodes an enzyme which is involved in the initial stagesof the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol and a member of the short-chaindehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The encoded protein is a membrane-associatedendoplasmic ret...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, andtwo NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrialand the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+...
IDH2: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matri...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversionof isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to its highly electrophilic isomer, dimethylallyldiphosphate (DMAPP), which are the substrates fo...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in peroxisome. Predicted to ...
KLF1: This gene encodes a hematopoietic-specific transcription factor thatinduces high-level expression of adult beta-globin and other erythroid genes.The zin...
LCK: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs).The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and maturationof developing T-cells. It contains N-terminal sites for myristylation andpalmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains whi...
LIPE: The protein encoded by this gene has a long and a short form, generatedby use of alternative translational start codons. The long form is expressedin steroidogenic tissues su...
LONP2: In human, peroxisomes function primarily to catalyze fatty acid beta-oxidationand, as a by-product, produce hydrogen peroxide and superoxide. The proteinencoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent protease that likely plays a rolein maintaining overall peroxisome h...
MLYCD: The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA toacetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acidbiosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fa...
NEDD4: This gene is the founding member of the NEDD4 family of HECT ubiquitinligases that function in the ubiquitin proteasome system of protein degradation.The encoded protein contains an N-terminal calcium and ph...
NPC1: This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membraneof endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol traffickingvia binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain. It is predicted to havea cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in thelumen of th...
NR0B2: The protein encoded by this gene is an unusual orphan receptor thatcontains a putative ligand-binding domain but lacks a conventional DNA-bindingdomain. The gene product is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family,a group of transcription factors regulated by small hydrophobic hormones,a subset of which do not have known ligands and are referred to a...
NR1H4: This gene encodes a ligand-activated transcription factor that sharesstructural features in common with nuclear hormone receptor family members.This protein functions as a receptor ...
NR1I2: This gene product belongs to the nuclear receptor superfamily, membersof which are transcription factors characterized by a ligand-binding domainand a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcriptional regulatorof the cytochrome P450 gene CYP3A4, binding to the response element of theCYP3A4 promo...
NR3C2: This gene encodes the mineralocorticoid receptor, which mediates aldosteroneactions on salt and water balance within restricted target cells. The proteinfunctions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor that binds to mineralocorticoidresponse elements ...
NUDT12: Nucleotides are involved in numerous biochemical reactions and pathwayswithin the cell as substrates, cofactors, and effectors. Nudix hydrolase...
OPTN: This gene encodes the coiled-coil containing protein optineurin. Optineurinmay play a role in normal-tension glaucoma and adult-onset primary open angleglaucoma. Optineurin interacts with adenovirus E3-14.7K protein and may utilizetumor necrosis factor-alpha or Fas-ligand pat...
PAOX: Enables polyamine oxidase activity. Involved in polyamine metabolicprocess and positive regulation o...
PECR: Enables signaling receptor binding activity and trans-2-enoyl-CoA reductase(NADPH) ...
PEX1: This gene encodes a member of the AAA ATPase family, a large group ofATPases associated with diverse cellular activities. This protein is cytoplasmicbut is often anchored to a peroxisomal membrane where it forms a heteromericcomplex and plays a r...
PEX11A: This gene is a member of the PEX11 family, which is composed of membraneelongation factors involved in regulation of peroxisome maintenance and proliferation.This gene prod...
PEX11G: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PEX11 family.This family is reported to regulate the number and size of peroxisomes inevolutionarily...
PEX12: This gene belongs to the peroxin-12 family. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteinsthat are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisomebiogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomalrecessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisomefunction. The peroxiso...
PEX13: This gene encodes a peroxisomal membrane protein that binds the type1 peroxisomal targeting signal receptor via a SH3 domain located in the cy...
PEX16: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral peroxisomal membraneprotein. An inactivating nonsense mutation localized to this gene was observedin a patient with Zellweger syndrome of the complementation gr...
PEX19: This gene is necessary for early peroxisomal biogenesis. It acts bothas a cytosolic chaperone and as an import receptor for peroxisomal membraneproteins (PMPs). Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assemblyof functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) area group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseasescharacterized by multiple defects in pero...
PEX26: This gene belongs to the peroxin-26 gene family. It is probably requiredfor protein import into peroxisomes. It anchors PEX1 and PEX6 to peroxisomemembranes, possibly to form heteromeric AAA ATPase complexes required forthe import of proteins into peroxisomes. Defects in this gene are the causeof peroxisome biogenesis disord...
PEX6: This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with diversecellular activities) family of ATPases. This member is a predominantly cytoplasmicprotein, which plays a direct role in peroxisomal protein import and is requiredfor...
PEX7: This gene encodes the cytosolic receptor for the set of peroxisomalmatrix enzymes targeted to the organelle by the peroxisome targeting signal2 (PTS2). Defects in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs),which are characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. Thereare at least 14 complementation groups for PBDs...
PFKM: Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver andplatelet. These isozymes function as subunits of the mammalian tetramer phosphofructokinase,which catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to f...
PHYH: This gene is a member of the PhyH family and encodes a peroxisomal proteinthat is involved in the alpha-oxidation of 3-methyl branched fatty acids.Specifically, this protein converts phytanoyl-CoA to 2-hydroxyphytanoyl...
PIPOX: Enables L-pipecolate oxidase activity and sarcosine oxidase activity.Involved in L-lysi...
PNPLA8: This gene encodes a member of the patatin-like phospholipase domaincontaining protein family. Members of this family are phospholipases whichcatalyze the cleavage of fatty acids from membrane phosp...
PRDX5: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidantenzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encodedprotein interacts with peroxisome receptor 1 and plays an antioxidant protectiverole in different tissues under normal co...
PXMP2: Located in peroxisomal membrane. Part of protein-...
RBP1: This gene encodes the carrier protein involved in the transport of retinol(vitamin A alcohol) from the liver storage site to peripheral tissue. VitaminA is...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity. Predictedto b...
RXRA: Retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and retinoic acid receptors (RARs) are nuclearreceptors that mediate the biological effects of retinoids by their involvementin retinoic acid-mediated gene activation. These receptors function as transcriptio...
RXRG: This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family ofnuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the antiproliferative effectsof retinoic acid (RA). This receptor forms dimers with the retinoic acid,...
SCP2: This gene encodes two proteins: sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) andsterol carrier protein 2 (SCP2), as a result of transcription initiation from2 independently regulated promoters. The transcript initiated from the proximalpromoter encodes the longer SCPx protein, and the transcript initiated fromthe distal promoter encodes the shorter SCP2 protein, with the 2 proteinssharing a common...
SERPINA6: This gene encodes an alpha-globulin protein with corticosteroid-bindingproperties. This is the major transport protein for glucorticoids and progesti...
SLC22A18: This gene is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragmentslocated in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressorgene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemannsyndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung,...
SLC23A1: The absorption of vitamin C into the body and its distribution toorgans requires two sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters. This gene encodesone of the two transporters. The encode...
SLC23A2: The absorption of vitamin C into the body and its distribution toorgans requires two sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters. This gene enc...
SLC27A2: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convertfree long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play akey role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. Thi...
SLC27A5: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of very long-chainacyl-CoA synthetase (VLCS). It is capable of activating very long-chain fatty-acidscontaining 24- and 26-carbon...
SLC29A1: This gene is a member of the equilibrative nucleoside transporterfamily. The gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein that localizes to theplasma and mitochondrial membranes and mediates the cellular uptake of nucleosidesfrom the surrounding medium. The protein is categorized as an equilibrative(as opposed...
SLC35B2: Sulfotransferases (e.g., SULT4A1; MIM 608359) use an activated formof sulfate, 3-prime-phosphoadenosine 5-prime-phosphosulfate (PAPS), as a commonsulfate donor for sulfation of glycoproteins, ...
SLCO1A2: This gene encodes a sodium-independent transporter which mediatescellular uptake of organic ions in the liver. Its substrates include bileacids, brom...
SOAT2: Summary:This gene is a member of a small family of acyl coenzyme A:cholesterolacyltransferases. The gene encodes a membrane-bound enzyme localized in theendoplasmic reticulum that produces intracellular cholesterol esters fromlong-chain fatty acyl CoA and cholesterol. The cholesterol e...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is oneof two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in thebody. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimerto convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecularoxygen and hydrogen...
SULT1B1: Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of manyhormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolicenzymes are different in their...
SULT2B1: Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of manyhormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolicenzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities.The ge...
TFCP2L1: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specificDNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of transcription by R...
TTR: This gene encodes one of the three prealbumins, which include alpha-1-antitrypsin,transthyretin and orosomucoid. The encoded protein, transthyretin, is a homo-tetramericcarrier protein, which transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinalfluid. It is also involved in the transport of retinol (vitamin A) in theplasma by associating with retinol-binding protein. The protein may also beinvolved in ot...
////
ALDH18A1: This gene is a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family and encodes a bifunctional ATP- and NADPH-dependent mitochondrial enzyme with both gamma-glutamyl kinase and gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase activities. The encoded protein catalyzes the reduction of glutamate to delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, a critical step in the de novo biosynthesis of proline, ornithine a...
ARFGAP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase-activating protein, which associates with the Golgi apparatus and which interacts with ADP-ribosylation factor 1. The encoded protein promotes hydrolysis of ADP-ribosylation factor 1-bound GTP and is required for the dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi-derived membranes an...
ASNS: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of asparagine. This gene complements a mutation in the temperature-sensitive hamster mutant ts11, which blocks progression...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcription factor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription factors. This gene is induced by a variety of signals, including many of those encountered by cancer cells, and is involved in the complex pr...
ATF4: This gene encodes a transcription factor that was originally identified as a widely expressed mammalian DNA binding protein that could bind a tax-responsive enhancer element in the LTR of HTLV-1. The encoded protein was also isolated and characterized as the cAMP-response element binding protein 2 (CREB-2). The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of DNA-binding proteins that includes the AP-1 family of transcription factors, cAMP-response element binding pr...
ATF6: This gene encodes a transcription factor that activates target genes for the unfolded protein response (UPR) during endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Although it is a transcription factor, this protein is unusual in that it is synthesized as a transmembrane protein that is embedded in the ER. It functions as an ER stress sensor/transducer, and following ER stress-induced proteolysis, it functions as a nuclear transcription factor via a cis-acting ER stress response element (ERSE) that is present in the p...
ATP6V0D1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of t...
BAG3: BAG proteins compete with Hip for binding to the Hsc70/Hsp70 ATPase domain and promote substrate release. All the BAG proteins have an approximately 45-amino acid BAG domain near the C terminus but differ markedly in their N-terminal regions. The protein encoded by this gene contains a WW domain in the N-terminal region and a BAG d...
BANF1: The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its ability to protect retroviruses from intramolecular integration and therefore promote intermolecular integration into the host cell genome. The protein forms a homodimer which localizes to both the nucleus and cytoplasm and is specifically associated with chromosomes during mitosis. This protein binds to double stranded DNA in a non-s...
CALR: Calreticulin is a highly conserved chaperone protein which resides primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum, and is involved in a variety of cellular processes, among them, cell adhesion. Additionally, it functions in protein folding quality control and calcium homeostasis. Calreticulin is also found in the nucleus, su...
CCL2: This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine is a member of the CC subfamily which is characterized by two adjacent cysteine residues. This cytokine displays chemotactic activit...
CEBPB: This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer but can also form heterodimers with CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins alpha, delta, and gamma. Activity of this protein is imp...
CEBPG: The C/EBP family of transcription factors regulates viral and cellular CCAAT/enhancer element-mediated transcription. C/EBP proteins contain the bZIP region, which is characterized by two motifs in the C-terminal half of the protein: a basic region involved in DNA binding and a leucine zipper motif involved in dimerization. The C/EBP family consist of severa...
CHAC1: This gene encodes a member of the gamma-glutamylcyclotransferase family of proteins. The encoded protein has been shown to promote neuronal differentiation by deglycination of the Notch receptor, which prevents receptor maturation and inhibits Notch signaling. This protein may also pl...
CKS1B: CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function. The CKS1B mRNA is found to be expressed in different patterns through the cell cycle in HeLa cells,...
CNOT2: This gene encodes a subunit of the multi-component CCR4-NOT complex. The CCR4-NOT complex regulates mRNA synthesis and degradation and is also thought to be involved in mRNA splicing, transport and localization. The encode...
CNOT4: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CCR4-NOT complex, a global transcriptional regulator. The encoded protein interacts with CNOT1 and ha...
CNOT6: This gene encodes the catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT core transcriptional regulation complex. The encoded protein has a 3'-5' RNase activity and prefers polyadenylated substrates. T...
CXXC1: This gene encodes a protein that functions as a transcriptional activator that binds specifically to non-methylated CpG motifs through its CXXC domain. Th...
DCP1A: Decapping is a key step in general and regulated mRNA decay. The protein encoded by this gene is a decapping enzyme. This protein and another decapping enzyme form a decapping complex, which interacts with the nonsense-mediated decay factor hUpf1 and...
DCP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of an mRNA-decapping complex required for degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover, and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). It removes the 7-methyl g...
DCTN1: This gene encodes the largest subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. Dynactin is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit interacts with dynein intermediate chain by...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involved in defense response to virus; negative regulation of T...
DDX10: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed ...
DKC1: This gene functions in two distinct complexes. It plays an active role in telomerase stabilization and maintenance, as well as recognition of snoRNAs containing H/ACA sequences which provides stability during biogenesis and assembly into H/ACA small nucleolar RNA ribonucleoproteins (snoRNPs). This gene is highl...
DNAJA4: Enables chaperone binding activity and unfolded protein binding activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of endothelial cell migration...
DNAJB9: This gene is a member of the J protein family. J proteins function in many cellular processes by regulating the ATPase activity of 70 kDa heat shock proteins. This gene is a member of the type 2 subgroup of DnaJ proteins....
DNAJC3: This gene encodes a protein with multiple tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs as well as the highly conserved J domain found in DNAJ chaperone family members. It is a member o...
EDC4: Predicted to be involved in deadenylation-independent decapping of nuclear-transcribed mRNA....
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity and misfolded protein binding activity. Involved in mannose trimming involved in glycoprotein ERAD pathway; positive regulation of retrogra...
EEF2: This gene encodes a member of the GTP-binding translation elongation factor family. This protein is an essential factor for protein synthesis. It promotes the GTP-dependent translocatio...
EIF2AK3: The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the alpha subunit of eukaryotic translation-initiation factor 2, leading to its inactivation, and thus to a rapid reduction of translational initiation and repression of global protein synthesis. This protein is thought to modula...
EIF2S1: The translation initiation factor EIF2 catalyzes the first regulated step of protein synthesis initiation, promoting the binding of the initiator tRNA to 40S ribosomal subunits. Binding occurs as a ternary complex of methionyl-tRNA, EIF2, and GTP. EIF2 is composed of 3 nonidentical subunits, the 36-kD EIF2-a...
EIF4A1: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cytoplasmic translati...
EIF4A2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved in negative regulation of RNA-directed 5'-3' RNA polymerase acti...
EIF4A3: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns,...
EIF4E: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex, which recognizes the 7-methylguanosine cap structure at the 5' end of messenger RNAs. The encoded protein aids in translation initiation by recruiting ribosomes to the 5'-cap structure. Association of this protein with the 4F complex is ...
EIF4EBP1: This gene encodes one member of a family of translation repressor proteins. The protein directly interacts with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), which is a limiting component of the multisubunit complex that recruits 40S ribosomal subunits to the 5' end of mRNAs. Interaction of this...
EIF4G1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multi-subunit protein complex EIF4F. This complex facilitates the recruitment of mRNA to the ribosome, which is a rate-limiting step during the initiation phase of protein synthesis. The recognition of the mRNA cap and the ATP-dependent unwinding of 5'-terminal secondary structure is catalyzed by factors in this complex. The subunit encoded by this gene i...
ERN1: This gene encodes the transmembrane protein kinase inositol-requiring enzyme 1. The encoded protein contains two functional catalytic domains, a serine/threonine-protein kinase domain and an endoribonuclease domain. This protein functions as a sensor of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and triggers an intracellular signaling pathway termed the unfolded protein respons...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in chaperone cofactor-dependent protein refolding...
EXOC2: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the exocyst complex, a multi-protein complex essential for the polarized targeting of exocytic vesicles to specific docking sites on the plasma membrane. Though best characterized in yeast, the component proteins and the functions of the exocyst complex have been demonstrated to be highly conserved in higher eukaryotes. At least eight components of the exocyst complex, including this pro...
EXOSC1: This gene encodes a core component of the exosome. The mammalian exosome is required for rapid degradation of AU rich element-containing RNAs but not for poly(A) shortening. The association of this protein with the exosome is mediat...
EXOSC10: Enables 3'-5'-exoribonuclease activity. Involved in several processes, including RNA catabolic process; maturation of 5.8S rRNA; and negative regulation of telomere maintenance via tel...
EXOSC2: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cell growth. Located in cytoplasm; nucleol...
EXOSC4: Enables mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding activity. Involved in nucleic acid metabolic process and positive regulation of cell growth. Acts upstream of or within defense respons...
EXOSC5: Predicted to enable RNA binding activity. Involved in DNA deamination and exonucleolytic catabolism of deadenylated mRNA. Acts upstream of or within defense response to vir...
EXOSC9: This gene encodes a component of the human exosome, a exoribonuclease complex which processes and degrades RNA in the nucleus and cytoplasm. This component may play a role i...
FKBP14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the FK506-binding protein family of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases. The encoded protein is found in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, where it is thought to accele...
FUS: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein component of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) complex. The hnRNP complex is involved in pre-mRNA splicing and the export of fully processed mRNA to the cytoplasm. This protein belongs to the FET family of RNA-binding proteins which have been impli...
GEMIN4: The product of this gene is part of a large complex localized to the cytoplasm, nucleoli, and to discrete nuclear bodies called Gemini bodies (gems). The complex functions in spliceosomal snRNP assembly in the cytoplasm, and regenerates spliceosomes required for pre-mRNA splicing...
GOSR2: This gene encodes a trafficking membrane protein which transports proteins among the medial- and trans-Golgi compartments. Due to its chrom...
H2AX: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer, around which approximately 146 bp of DNA is wrapped in repeating units, called nucleosomes. The linker histone, H1, interacts with linker DNA b...
HERPUD1: The accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) triggers the ER stress response. This response includes the inhibition of translation to prevent further accumulation of unfolded proteins, the increased expression of proteins involved in polypeptide folding, known as the unfolded protein response (UPR), and the destruction of misfolded proteins by the ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) system. This gene may play a role in both UPR and ERAD. Its expression is induced by UPR and it has an ER st...
HSP90B1: This gene encodes a member of a family of adenosine triphosphate(ATP)-metabolizing molecular chaperones with roles in stabilizing and folding other proteins. The encoded protein is localized to melanosomes and the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of this...
HSPA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) family. This protein localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) where it operates as a typical HSP70 chaperone involved in the folding and assembly of proteins in the ER and is a master regulator of ER homeostasis. During cellular stress, as during viral infection or tumorogenesis, this protein interacts with the transmembrane stress sensor proteins PERK (protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase), IRE1 (inositol-requiring kinase 1), and ATF6 (activa...
HSPA9: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 gene family. The encoded protein is primarily localized to the mitochondria but is also found in the endoplasmic reticulum, plasma membrane and cytoplasmic vesicles. This pro...
HYOU1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the heat shock protein 70 family. This gene uses alternative transcription start sites. A cis-acting segment found in the 5' UTR is involved in stress-dependent induction, resulting in the accumulation of this protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) under hypoxic conditions. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to play an important role in protein folding and secretion in the ER. Since suppression of the protein is associated with accelerated apoptosis, it is also suggested to have an important cytoprotective role in hypoxia-induced cellular perturbation. This protein has been shown to be up-regul...
IARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAS, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Iso...
IFIT1: This gene encodes a protein containing tetratricopeptide repeats that was originally identified as induced upon treatment with interferon. The encoded protein may inhibit viral replication and translational initiation. This gene is located in a c...
IGFBP1: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP N-terminal domain and a thyroglobulin type-I domain. The encoded protein, mainly expressed in the liver, circulates in the plasma and binds both insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) I and II, prolo...
IMP3: This gene encodes the human homolog of the yeast Imp3 protein. The protein localizes to the nucleoli and i...
KDELR3: This gene encodes a member of the KDEL endoplasmic reticulum protein retention receptor family. Retention of resident soluble proteins in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is achieved in both yeast and animal cells by their continual retrieval from the cis-Golgi, or a pre-Golgi compartment. Sorting of these proteins is dependent on a C-terminal tetrapeptide signal, usually lys-asp-glu-leu (KDEL) in animal cells, and his-asp-glu-leu (HDEL) in S. cerevisiae. This process is mediated...
KHSRP: The KHSRP gene encodes a multifunctional RNA-binding protein implicated in a variety of cellular processes, including transcription, alternative pr...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity; and microtubule motor activity. Involved in several processes, including lysosome localization; natural killer cell mediated...
LSM1: This gene encodes a member of the LSm family of RNA-binding proteins. LSm proteins form stable heteromers that bind specifically to the 3'-terminal oligo(U) tract of U6 snRNA and may play a role in pre-mRNA splicing by mediating U4/U6 snRNP formation. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in cellul...
LSM4: This gene encodes a member of the LSm family of RNA-binding proteins. LSm proteins form stable heteromers that bind specifically to the 3'-terminal oligo(U) tract of U6 snRNA and may play a role in...
MTHFD2: This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzyme with methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activities. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and is unique in its absolute requirement for magnesium and inorgani...
MTREX: Enables ATP binding activity and RNA helicase activity. Involved in RNA catabolic process; cellular response to DNA damage stimulus; and maturation of 5.8S rRNA. Located in nucleoplasm. Part of TRAM...
NABP1: Single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding proteins, such as OBFC2A, are ubiquitous and essential for a variety of DNA metabolic processes, includi...
NFYA: The protein encoded by this gene is one subunit of a trimeric complex, forming a highly conserved transcription factor that binds to CCAAT motifs in the promoter regions in a variety of genes. Subunit A associates with a tight dimer composed of the B and C subunits, resulting in a trimer that binds to DNA with high specificity and affinity. The sequence specific interactions of the complex are made by the ...
NFYB: The protein encoded by this gene is one subunit of a trimeric complex, forming a highly conserved transcription factor that binds with high specificity to CCAAT motifs in the promoter regions in a variety of genes. This gene product, subunit B, forms a tight dimer with the C subunit, a prerequisite for subunit A associa...
NHP2: This gene is a member of the H/ACA snoRNPs (small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins) gene family. snoRNPs are involved in various aspects of rRNA processing and modification and have been classified into two families: C/D and H/ACA. The H/ACA snoRNPs also include the DKC1, NOLA1 and NOLA3 proteins. These four H/ACA snoRNP proteins localize to the dense fibrillar components of nucleoli and to coiled (...
NOLC1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Involved in neural crest cell development; neura...
NOP14: This gene encodes a protein that plays a role in pre-18s rRNA processing and small ribosomal subunit assembly. The encoded protein may be involved in the regul...
NOP56: Nop56p is a yeast nucleolar protein that is part of a complex with the nucleolar proteins Nop58p and fibrillarin. Nop56p is required for assembly of the 60S ribosomal subunit and is involved in pre-rRNA processing. The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to Nop56p and is also found in the nucleolus. Expansion ...
NPM1: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in several cellular processes, including centrosome duplication, protein chaperoning, and cell proliferation. The encoded phosphoprotein shuttles between the nucleolus, nucleus, and cytoplasm, chaperoning ribosomal proteins and core histones from the nucleus to the c...
PAIP1: The protein encoded by this gene interacts with poly(A)-binding protein and with the cap-binding complex eIF4A. It is involved in translational initiation and protein biosynthesis. Overexpression of this ge...
PARN: The protein encoded by this gene is a 3'-exoribonuclease, with similarity to the RNase D family of 3'-exonucleases. It prefers poly(A) as the substrate, hence, efficiently degrades poly(A) tails of mRNAs. Exonucleolytic degradation of the poly(A) tail is often the first step in the decay of eukaryotic mRNAs. This protein is also invol...
PDIA5: This gene encodes a member of the disulfide isomerase (PDI) family of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins that catalyze protein folding and thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. The encoded protein has an N-terminal ER-signal sequence, three catalytically active thioredoxin (TRX) domains, a TRX-like domain, and a C-te...
PDIA6: This gene encodes a member of the disulfide isomerase (PDI) family of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins that catalyze protein folding and thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. The encoded protein has an N-terminal ER-signal sequence, two catalytically active thioredoxin (TRX) domains, a TRX-l...
POP4: This gene encodes one of the protein subunits of the small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein complexes: the endoribonuclease for mitochondrial RNA processing complex and the ribonuclease P complex. The encoded protein is localized to the n...
PREB: This gene encodes a protein that specifically binds to a Pit1-binding element of the prolactin (PRL) promoter. This protein may act as a transcriptional regulator and is thought to be involved in some of th...
PSAT1: This gene encodes a member of the class-V pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase family. The encoded protein is a phosphoserine aminotransferase and decreased expression may be associated with schizophrenia. Mutations in this gene a...
RPS14: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S11P family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. Transcript variants utilizing alternative transcription initiation ...
RRP9: This gene encodes a member of the WD-repeat protein family. The encoded protein is a component of the nucleolar small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snoRNP) and is essential for 18s rRNA processing...
SDAD1: Predicted to be involved in ribosomal large subunit biogenesis and ribosomal large subunit export from nucleus. Predicted to act upstream of or with...
SEC11A: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S26B family. The encoded protein is an 18kDa subunit of the signal peptidase complex and has been linked to cell migration and invasion, gastric c...
SEC31A: The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with the yeast Sec31 protein, and is a component of the outer layer of the coat protein complex II (COPII). The encoded protein is involved in vesicle budding from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and contains multiple WD repeats near the N-terminus and a proline-rich region in the C-terminal half. It associates with the protein encoded b...
SERP1: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response and protein glycosylation. Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, including multicellular organism ...
SHC1: This gene encodes three main isoforms that differ in activities and subcellular location. While all three are adapter proteins in signal transduction pathways, the longest (p66Shc) may be involved in regulating life span and the effects of reactive oxygen species. The other two isoforms, p52Shc and p46Shc, link activated recepto...
SLC1A4: The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter for alanine, serine, cysteine, and threonine. Defects...
SLC30A5: This gene encodes a member of the SLC30A/ZnT family of zinc transporter proteins. ZnT proteins mediate both cellular zinc efflux and zinc sequestration into membrane-bound organelles. The encoded protein plays a role in the early secretory pathway as a heterodimer with zinc transporter 6, and may als...
SLC7A5: Enables L-leucine transmembrane transporter activity; L-tryptophan transmembrane transporter activity; and thyroid hormone transmembrane transporter activity. Involved in carboxylic acid transport; thyroid hormone transport; and xenobiotic transport. Located i...
SPCS1: Predicted to enable peptidase activity and ribosome binding activity. Involved in viral protein processing and virion ass...
SPCS3: Predicted to enable peptidase activity. Involved in proteolysis and viral protein processing...
SRPRA: The gene encodes a subunit of the endoplasmic reticulum signal recognition particle receptor that, in conjunction with the signal recognition particle, is involved in the targeting and translocati...
SRPRB: The protein encoded by this gene has similarity to mouse protein which is a subunit of the signal recognition particle receptor (SR). This subunit is a transmembrane GTPase belonging to the GTPase superfamily. It anch...
SSR1: The signal sequence receptor (SSR) is a glycosylated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane receptor associated with protein translocation across the ER membrane. The SSR consists of 2 subunits, a 34-kD glycoprotein encoded by this gene and a 22-kD glycoprotein. This gene generates several mRNA s...
STC2: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressed in a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions. The encoded protein has 10 of its 15 cysteine residues conserved among stanniocalcin family members and is phosphorylated by casein kinase 2 exclusively on its serine residues. Its C-terminus contains a cluster of histidine residues which may interact with metal ions. The protein may play a r...
TARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA...
TATDN2: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity and nuclease activity. Predicted to be involved in nucleic acid phosphodi...
TSPYL2: This gene encodes a member of the testis-specific protein Y-encoded, TSPY-like/SET/nucleosome assembly protein-1 superfamily. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleolus where it...
TUBB2A: Microtubules, key participants in processes such as mitosis and intracellular transport, are composed of heterodimers of alpha- and beta-tubulins. The protein encoded by this gene is a beta-tubulin. Defects in t...
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodes a heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. This growth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelial cells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis. Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vessel formation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expression is correlated with tumor stage and progression. Elevated levels of this protein are found in patients with POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with microvascular complications of diabetes 1 (MVCD1) and atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. There is also evidence for alternative translation initiation from upstream non-AUG (CUG) codons resulting in addit...
WFS1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein, which is located primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum and ubiquitously expressed with highest levels in brain, pancreas, heart, and insulinoma beta-cell lines. Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolfram syndrome, also called DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrop...
WIPI1: This gene encodes a WD40 repeat protein. Members of the WD40 repeat family are key components of many essential biologic functions. They regulate the assembly of multiprotein complexes by presenting a beta-propeller platform for simultaneous and reversible protein-protein ...
XBP1: This gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates MHC class II genes by binding to a promoter element referred to as an X box. This gene product is a bZIP protein, which was also identified as a cellular transcription factor that binds to an enhancer in the promoter of the T cell leukemia virus type 1 promoter. It may increase expression of viral proteins by acting as the DNA binding partner of a viral transactivator. It has been found that upon accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the mRNA of this gene is processed to an active form by an unconventional spli...
XPOT: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the RAN-GTPase exportin family that mediates export of tRNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm....
YIF1A: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport. Located in Golgi apparatus ...
YWHAZ: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 99% identical to the mouse, rat and sheep ...
ZBTB17: This gene encodes a zinc finger protein involved in the regulation of c-myc. The symbol MIZ1 has also been a...
////
ACE: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in blood pressure regulation and electrolyte balance. It catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I into a physiologically active peptide angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor and aldosterone-stimulating peptide that controls blood pressure and fluid-electrolyte balance. This angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) also inactivates the vasodilator protein, bradykinin. Accordingly, the encoded enzyme increases blood pressure and is a drug target of ACE inhibitors, which are often prescribed to reduce blood pre...
ACRBP: The protein encoded by this gene is similar to proacrosin binding protein sp32 precursor found in mouse, guinea pig, and pig. This protein is located in the sperm acrosome and is thought to function as a binding protein to proacrosin for packaging a...
ACRV1: This gene encodes a testis-specific, differentiation antigen, acrosomal vesicle protein 1, that arises within the acrosomal vesicle during spermatogenesis, and is asso...
ACTL7B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of actin-related proteins (ARPs) which share significant amino acid sequence identity to conventional actins. Both actins and ARPs have an actin fold, which is an ATP-binding cleft, as a common feature. The ARPs are involved in diverse cellular processes, including vesicular transport, spindle orientation, nuclear m...
ADAD1: Predicted to enable double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase activity; double-stranded RNA binding activity; and tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase activity. Predicted to be invol...
ADAM2: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes invol...
ADCYAP1: This gene encodes a secreted proprotein that is further processed into multiple mature peptides. These peptides stimulate adenylate cyclase and increase cyclic adenosine monoph...
AGFG1: The protein encoded by this gene is related to nucleoporins, a class of proteins that mediate nucleocytoplasmic transport. The encoded protein binds the activation domain of the hu...
AKAP4: The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete ...
ALOX15: This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme acts on various polyunsaturated fatty acid substrates to generate various bioactive lipid mediators ...
ARL4A: ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4A is similar to ARL4C and ARL4D and each has a nuclear localizatio...
ART3: This gene encodes an arginine-specific ADP-ribosyltransferase. The encoded protein catalyzes a reversible reaction which modifies proteins by the addition or removal of ADP-ribos...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase that appears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at the spindle pole during chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is found at the centrosome in interph...
BRAF: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the RAF family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERK signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion. Mutations in this gene, most commonly the V600E mutation, are the most frequently identified cance...
BUB1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a central role in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylating members of the mitotic checkpoint complex and activating the spindle checkpoint. This p...
CAMK4: The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This enz...
CCNA1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. The cyclin encoded by this gene was shown to be expre...
CCNB2: Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-type cyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essential components of the cell cycle regulatory machinery. B1 and B2 differ in their su...
CCT6B: This gene encodes a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin-containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conserved protein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting factor (MPF), which is essential for G1/S and G2/M phase transitions of eukaryotic cell cycle. Mitotic cyclin...
CDKN3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity protein phosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, and has been shown to interact with, and dephosph...
CFTR: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel, making it unique among members of this protein family, and controls ion and water secretion and absorption in epithelial tissues. Channel activation is mediated by cycles of regul...
CHFR: This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase required for the maintenance of the antephase checkpoint that regulates cell cycle entry into mitosis and, therefore, may play a key role in cell cycle pro...
CHRM4: The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclas...
CLGN: Calmegin is a testis-specific endoplasmic reticulum chaperone pro...
CLPB: This gene belongs to the ATP-ases associated with diverse cellular activities (AAA+) superfamily. Members of this superfamily form ring-shaped homo-hexamers and have highly conserved ATPase domains that are involved in various processes including DNA replication, protein degradation and reactivation of misfolded proteins. All members of this family hydrolyze ATP through their AAA+ domains and us...
CLVS1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding activity. Predicted to ...
CNIH2: The protein encoded by this gene is an auxiliary subunit of the ionotropic glutamate receptor of the AMPA subtype. AMPA receptors mediate fast synaptic neurotransmission in the central nervous system. This prot...
COIL: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral component of Cajal bodies (also called coiled bodies). Cajal bodies are nuclear suborganelles of varying number and composition that are involved in the post-transcriptional modification of small nuclear and small nucleolar RNAs. ...
CRISP2: Predicted to be involved in cell-cell adhesion. Predicted to...
CSNK2A2: This gene encodes the alpha', or alpha 2, catalytic subunit of the protein kinase enzyme, casein kinase 2 (CK2). Casein kinase 2 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian r...
CST8: The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type ...
DBF4: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regula...
DCC: This gene encodes a netrin 1 receptor. The transmembrane protein is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules, and mediates axon guidance of neuronal growth cones towards sources of netrin 1 ligand. The cytoplasmic tail interacts...
DDX25: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assemb...
DDX4: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distri...
DMC1: This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of recombinases (also called DNA strand-exchange proteins). Recombinases are important for repairing double-strand DNA breaks during mitosis and meiosis. ...
DMRT1: This gene is found in a cluster with two other members of the gene family, having in common a zinc finger-like DNA-binding motif (DM domain). The DM domain is an ancient, conserved component of the vertebra...
DNAJB8: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DNAJ/HSP40 family of proteins that regulate chaperone activity. This family member suppresses aggregation and toxicit...
DPEP3: This gene encodes a membrane-bound glycoprotein from the family of dipeptidases involved in hydrolytic metabolism of various dipeptides, including penem and carbapenem b...
ELOVL3: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the GNS1/SUR4 family. Members of this family play a r...
EZH2: This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations. This pr...
GAD1: This gene encodes one of several forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase, identified as a major autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes. The enzyme encoded is responsible for catalyzing the production of gamma-aminobutyric acid from L-glutamic acid. A pathogenic role for this enzyme has been identif...
GAPDHS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase family of enzymes that play an important role in carbohydrate metabolism. Like its somatic cell counterpart, this sperm-specific enzyme functions in a nicotinamid...
GFI1: This gene encodes a nuclear zinc finger protein that functions as a transcriptional repressor. This protein plays a role in diverse developmental contexts, including hematopoiesis and oncogenesis. It functions as part of a complex along with other cofactors to control histone modifications that lea...
GMCL1: This gene encodes a nuclear envelope protein that appears to be involved in spermatogenesis, either directly or by influencing genes that play a more direct role in the process. This...
GPR182: Adrenomedullin is a potent vasodilator peptide that exerts major effects on cardiovascular function. This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane pr...
GRM8: L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been di...
GSG1: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase binding activity. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum me...
GSTM3: Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, includi...
H1-6: Histones are basic nuclear proteins responsible for nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer, around which approximately 146 bp of DNA is wrapped in repeating units, called nucleosomes. The linker hi...
HBZ: Zeta-globin is an alpha-like hemoglobin. The zeta-globin polypeptide is synthesized in the yolk sac of the early embryo, while alpha-globin is produced throughout fetal and adult lif...
HOXB1: This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular orga...
HSPA1L: This gene encodes a 70kDa heat shock protein. In conjunction with other heat shock proteins, this protein stabilizes existing proteins against aggregation and mediates the folding of new...
HSPA2: Enables disordered domain specific binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and unfolded protein binding acti...
HSPA4L: The protein encoded by this gene is heat shock inducible and may act as a chaperone. The encoded protein can protect the heat-shocked cell against the harmful effect...
HTR5A: The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) has been implicated in a wide range of psychiatric conditions and also has vasoconstrictive and vasodilatory effects. The gene described in this record is a me...
IDE: This gene encodes a zinc metallopeptidase that degrades intracellular insulin, and thereby terminates insulins activity, as well as participating in intercellular peptide signalling by degrading diverse peptides such as glucagon, amylin, bradykinin, and kallidin. The preferential affinity of this enzyme for insulin results in insulin-mediated inhibition of the degradation of other peptides such a...
IFT88: This gene encodes a member of the tetratrico peptide repeat (TPR) family. The encoded protein is involved in cilium biogenesis. Muta...
IL12RB2: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein identified as a subunit of the interleukin 12 receptor complex. The coexpression of this and IL12RB1 proteins was shown to lead to the formation of high-affinity IL12 binding sites and reconstitution of IL12 dependent signaling. The expression of this g...
IL13RA2: The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to Il13RA1, a subuint of the interleukin 13 receptor complex. This protein binds IL1...
IP6K1: This gene encodes a member of the inositol phosphokinase family. The encoded protein may be responsible for the conversion of inositol hexakisphosphate (In...
JAM3: Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. The protein encoded by this immunoglobulin superfamily gene member is localized in the tight junctions between high en...
KIF2C: This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependent molecular motor. The encoded protein can de...
LDHC: Lactate dehydrogenase C catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis....
LPIN1: This gene encodes a magnesium-ion-dependent phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase enzyme that catalyzes the penultimate step in triglyceride synthesis including the dephosphorylation of phosphatidic acid to yield diacylglycerol. Expression of this gene is required for adipocyte differentiation and it also funct...
MAP7: The product of this gene is a microtubule-associated protein that is predominantly expressed in cells of epithelial origin. Microtubule-associated proteins are thought to be involved in microtubule dynamics, which is essential for cell polarization and differentiat...
MAST2: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including peptidyl-serine phosphorylation; regulation of interl...
MEP1B: Meprins are multidomain zinc metalloproteases that are highly expressed in mammalian kidney and intestinal brush border membranes, and in leukocytes and certain cancer cells. They are involved in the hydrolysis of a variety of peptide and protein substrates, and have been implicated in cancer and intestinal inflammation. Matu...
MLF1: This gene encodes an oncoprotein which is thought to play a role in the phenotypic determination of hemopoetic cells. Translocations between this gen...
MLLT10: This gene encodes a transcription factor and has been identified as a partner gene involved in several chromosomal...
MTNR1A: This gene encodes one of two high affinity forms of a receptor for melatonin, the primary hormone secreted by the pineal gland. This receptor is a G-protein coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor that is responsible for melatonin effects on mammalian circadian rhythm and ...
MTOR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of phosphatidylinositol kinase-related kinases. These kinases mediate cellular responses to stresses such as DNA damage and nutrient deprivation. This kinase is a component of two distinct complexes, mTORC1, which controls protein synthesis, cell growth and proliferation, and mTORC2, which is a regulator of the actin cy...
NAA11: Enables peptide alpha-N-acetyltransferase activity. Involved in N-terminal protein amino acid acetylation. Locate...
NCAPH: This gene encodes a member of the barr gene family and a regulatory subunit of the condensin complex. This complex is required for the conversion of interphase chromatin into condensed chromosomes. The protein encode...
NEFH: Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and functionally maintain neuronal caliber. They may also play a...
NEK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involved in mitotic regulation. This protein is localized to the centrosome, and undetectable during G1 phase, b...
NF2: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to some members of the ERM (ezrin, radixin, moesin) family of proteins that link cytoskeletal components with proteins in the cell membrane. The encoded protein is involved in regulation of contact-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation and functions in cell-cell adhesion and...
NOS1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of nitric oxide synthases, which synthesize nitric oxide from L-arginine. Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical, which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission, and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. In the brain and peripheral nervous system, nitric oxide displays many properties of a neurotransmitter,...
NPHP1: This gene encodes a protein with src homology domain 3 (SH3) patterns. This protein interacts with Crk-associated substrate, and it appears to function in the control of cell division, as well as in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion signaling, likely as part of a multifunctional complex localized in actin- and microtubule-based structures. Mutations in this gene cause familial juvenile nephronophthisis ...
NPY5R: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for neuropeptide Y and peptide YY. The encoded protein appears to be involved in regulating food intake, with defects in this gene being associated with eating diso...
OAZ3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ornithine decarboxylase antizyme family, which plays a role in cell growth and proliferation by regulating intracellular polyamine levels. Expression of antizymes requires +1 ribosomal frameshifting, which is enhanced by high levels of polyamines. Antizymes in turn bind to and inhibit ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the key enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis; thus, completing the auto-regulatory circuit. This gene encodes antizyme 3, the third member of the antizyme family. Like a...
ODF1: The outer dense fibers are cytoskeletal structures that surround the axoneme in the middle piece and principal piece of the sperm tail. The fibers function in maintaining the elastic structure and recoil of the sperm tai...
PACRG: This gene encodes a protein that is conserved across metazoans. In vertebrates, this gene is linked in a head-to-head arrangement with the adjacent parkin gene, which is associated with autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson's disease. These genes are co-regulated in various tissues and they share a bi-directional promoter. Both...
PAPOLB: Predicted to enable polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity. Predicted to be involved in mRNA polya...
PARP2: This gene encodes poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferase-like 2 protein, which contains a catalytic domain and is capable of catalyzing a poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reaction. This protein has a catalytic domain which is homologous to that of poly (ADP-ribosyl) transferase, but lacks an N-terminal...
PCSK1N: The protein encoded by this gene functions as an inhibitor of prohormone convertase 1, which regulates the proteolytic cleavage of ne...
PCSK4: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway. The encoded protein undergoes an initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER to generate a heterodimer which exits the ER and sorts to subcellular co...
PDHA2: Enables pyruvate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring) activity. Involved in pyru...
PEBP1: This gene encodes a member of the phosphatidylethanolamine-binding family of proteins and has been shown to modulate multiple signaling pathways, including the MAP kinase (MAPK), NF-kappa B, and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) signaling pathways. The encod...
PGK2: This gene is intronless, arose via retrotransposition of the phosphoglycerate kinase 1 gene, and is expressed specifically in the testis. Initially assumed to be a pseudogene, the encoded p...
PGS1: Predicted to enable CDP-diacylglycerol-glycerol-3-phosphate 3-phosphatidyltransferase activity and calcium ion binding activity....
PHF7: Spermatogenesis is a complex process regulated by extracellular and intracellular factors as well as cellular interactions among interstitial cells of the testis, Sertoli cells, and germ cells. This gene is expressed in the testis in Sertoli cells but not germ cells. The protein encoded ...
PHKG2: Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by two different genes. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, and encoded by one gene. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, and the hepatic isoform is encod...
PIAS2: This gene encodes a member of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT family, which function as SUMO E3 ligases and play important roles in many cellular processes by mediating the sumoylation of target proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isofor...
POMC: This gene encodes a preproprotein that undergoes extensive, tissue-specific, post-translational processing via cleavage by subtilisin-like enzymes known as prohormone convertases. There are eight potential cleavage sites within the preproprotein and, depending on tissue type and the available convertases, processing may yield as many as ten biologically active peptides involved in diverse cellular functions. The encoded protein is synthesized mainly in corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary where four cleavage sites are used; adrenocorticotrophin, essential f...
PRKAR2A: cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subuni...
PRM2: Protamines substitute for histones in the chromatin of sperm during the haploid phase of spermatogenesis, and are the major DNA-binding proteins in the nucleus of sperm in many vertebrates. They package the sperm DNA into a highly condensed complex in a volu...
PSMG1: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in chaperone-mediated protein complex assembly. Located in several ce...
RAD17: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad17, a cell cycle checkpoint gene required for cell cycle arrest and DNA damage repair in response to DNA damage. This protein shares strong similarity with DNA replication factor C (RFC), and can form a complex with RFCs. This protein binds to chromatin prior to DNA damage and is phosphorylated by the checkpoint...
RFC4: The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and DNA polymerase epsilon requires the accessory proteins proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and replication factor C (RFC). RFC, also named activator 1, is a protein complex consisting of five dist...
RPL39L: This gene encodes a protein sharing high sequence similarity with ribosomal protein L39. Although the name of this gene has been referred to as 'ribosomal protein L39' in the pub...
SCG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin family of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. Granins may serve as precursors for biologically active peptides. S...
SCG5: This gene encodes a secreted chaperone protein that prevents the aggregation of other secreted proteins, including proteins that are associated with neurodegenerative and metabolic disease. The encoded protein may be best known for...
SEPTIN4: This gene is a member of the septin family of nucleotide binding proteins, originally described in yeast as cell division cycle regulatory proteins. Septins are highly conserved in yeast, Drosophila, and mouse, and appear to regulate cytoskeletal organization. Disruption of se...
SHE: Predicted to enable phosphotyrosine residue bi...
SIRT1: This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologs to the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterized by a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of human sirtuins have not yet been determined; however, yeast s...
SLC12A2: The protein encoded by this gene mediates sodium and chloride transport and reabsorption. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and is important in mai...
SLC2A5: The protein encoded by this gene is a fructose transporter responsible for fructose uptake by the small in...
SNAP91: Predicted to enable several functions, including SNARE binding activity; clathrin binding activity; and phosphatidylinositol binding activity. Acts upstream of or within regulation of clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including postsynaptic density...
SPATA6: Predicted to enable myosin light chain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in motile cilium assembly and sp...
STAM2: The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to STAM, an adaptor protein involved in the downstream signaling of cytokine receptors, both of which contain a SH3 domain and the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activat...
STRBP: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in spermatogenesis. Predicted to act upstr...
SYCP1: Enables double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in protein homotetramerization. Predicted to be located in ...
TALDO1: Transaldolase 1 is a key enzyme of the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway providing ribose-5-phosphate for nucleic acid synthesis and NADPH for lipid biosynthesis. This pathway can also maintain glutathione at a reduced state and thus protect sulfhydryl groups an...
TCP11: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including protein kinase A signaling; regulation of cAMP-medi...
TEKT2: This gene product belongs to the tektin family of proteins. Tektins comprise a family of filament-forming proteins that are coassembled with tubulins to f...
THEG: This gene is specifically expressed in the nucleus of haploid male germ cells. The orthologous gene in mice encodes a protein that may play a role i...
TKTL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transketolase that acts as a homodimer and catalyzes the conversion of sedoheptulose 7-phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate to D-ribose 5-phosphate and D-x...
TLE4: Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Predicted to act upstream of or w...
TNNI3: Troponin I (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subunits that form the troponin complex of the thin filaments of striated muscle. TnI is the inhibitory subunit; blocking actin-myosin interactions and thereby mediating striated muscle relaxation. The TnI subfamily contains three genes: TnI-skeletal-fast-twitch, TnI-skeletal-slow-twitch, and TnI-cardiac. This gene encodes the TnI-cardiac prot...
TNP1: Transition protein-1 is a spermatid-specific product of the haploid genome which replaces histone and is itsel...
TNP2: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of protein processing; single fertilization; and spermatogenesis, exchange of chro...
TOPBP1: This gene encodes a binding protein which interacts with the C-terminal region of topoisomerase II beta. This interacti...
TSN: This gene encodes a DNA-binding protein which specifically recognizes conserved target sequences at the breakpoint junction of chromosomal translocations. Translin polypeptides form a multimeric structure that is responsible for its DNA-binding activity. Recombination-associated motifs and translin-binding sites are present at recombinat...
TSSK2: TSSK2 belongs to a family of serine/threonine kinases highl...
TTK: This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase with the ability to phosphorylate tyrosine, serine and threonine. Associated with cell proliferation, this protein is essential for chromosome alignment at the centromere during mitosis and is required f...
TUBA3C: Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential and diverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulin. The genes encoding these microtubule constituents are part of the tubulin superfamily, which is composed of six distinct families. Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubu...
TULP2: TULP2 is a member of a family of tubby-like genes (TULPs) that encode proteins of unknown function. Members of this family have ...
VDAC3: This gene encodes a voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), and belongs to the mitochondrial porin family. VDACs are small, integral membrane proteins that traverse the outer mitochondrial membrane and conduct ATP and other small metabolites. They are known to bind several ...
YBX2: This gene encodes a nucleic acid binding protein which is highly expressed in germ cells. The encoded protein binds to a Y-box el...
ZC2HC1C: Predicted to enable metal ion binding ac...
ZC3H14: The protein encoded by this gene is a poly(A)-binding protein that can affect gene expression a...
ZNRF4: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in ubiquitin-dependen...
ZPBP: ZPBP is one of several proteins that are thought to participate in secondary binding between acrosome...
////
A2M: The protein encoded by this gene is a protease inhibitor and cytokinetransporter. It uses a bait-and-trap mechanism to inhibit a broad spectrumof proteases, including trypsin, thrombin and collagenase. It can also...
ACOX2: The product of this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA oxidase family. Itencodes the branched-chain acyl-CoA oxidase which is involved in the degradati...
ADAM9: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteasedomain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurallyrelated to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a varietyof bio...
ANG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RNase A superfamilythough it has relatively weak ribonucleolytic activity. This protein is apotent mediator of new blood vessel formation and thus, in addition to thename RNase5, is commonly called angiogenin. This protein induces angiogenesisafter binding to actin on the surface of endothelial cells. This protein alsoaccumulates at the nucleolus where it stimulates ribosomal transcription.Under stress conditions this p...
ANXA1: This gene encodes a membrane-localized protein that binds phospholipids.This protein...
APOA1: This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein componentof high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma. The encoded preproprotein isproteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which promotes cholesterolefflux from tissues ...
APOC1: This gene encodes a member of the apolipoprotein C1 family. This geneis expressed primarily in the liver, and it is activated when monocytes differentiateinto macrophages. The encoded protein plays a central role in high densitylip...
APOC2: This gene encodes a lipid-binding protein belonging to the apolipoproteingene family. The protein is secreted in plasma where it is a component ofvery low density lipoprotein. This protein activates the enzyme lipoproteinlipase, which hyd...
APOC3: This gene encodes a protein component of triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins(TRLs) including very low density lipoproteins (VLDL), high density lipoproteins(HDL) and chylomicrons. The encoded protein plays a role in role in the metabolismof these TRLs through multi...
ARF4: This gene is a member of the human ARF gene family whose members encodesmall guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferaseactivity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and asactivators of phospholipas...
BMP1: This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation ofcartilage in vivo. Although other bone morphogenetic proteins are memb...
C1QA: This gene encodes the A-chain polypeptide of serum complement subcomponentC1q, which associates with C1r and C1s to yield the first component of theserum complement system...
C1R: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encodedprotein is a proteolytic subunit in the complement system...
C1S: This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent ofthe human complement subcomponent C1. C1...
C2: Component C2 is a serum glycoprotein that functions as part of the classicalpathway of the complement system. Activated C1 cleaves C2 into C2a and C2b.The serine proteinase C2a then combines with complement factor 4b to createthe C3 or C5 convertase. ...
C3: Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complementsystem. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complementactivation pathways. The encoded preproprotein is prot...
C8A: C8 is a component of the complement system and contains three polypeptides,alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of C...
C8B: This gene encodes one of the three subunits of the complement component8 (C8) protein. C8 is composed of equimolar amounts of alpha, beta and gammasubunits, which are encoded by three separate genes. C...
C8G: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lipocalin family. Itis one of the three subunits that constitutes complement component 8 (C8),which is composed of a disulfid...
C9: This gene encodes the final component of the complement system. It participatesin the formation of the Membr...
CAPN2: The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal,intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous,stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The...
CAPN5: Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteases involved in signaltransduction in a variety of cellular processes. A functional calpain proteinconsists of an...
CASP9: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolyticprocessing at cons...
CD9: This gene encodes a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also knownas the tetraspanin family. Tetraspanins are cell surface glycoproteins withfour transmem...
CFB: This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternativepathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a singlechain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternative pathway, it is cleavedby complement factor D yielding the noncatalytic chain Ba and the catalyticsubunit B...
CFD: This gene encodes a member of the S1, or chymotrypsin, family of serinepeptidases. This protease catalyzes the cleavage of factor B, the rate-limitingstep of the alternative pathway of complement activation. This protein alsofunctions...
CFH: This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA)gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR)domains. This protein is secreted into the bloo...
CFI: This gene encodes a serine proteinase that is essential for regulatingthe complement cascade. The encoded preproprotein is cleaved to produce bothheavy and light chains, which are linked by disulfide bonds to form a heterodimericglycoprotein. This heterodimer can cleave and inactivate the complement...
CLU: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can undersome stress conditions also be found in the cell ...
COMP: The protein encoded by this gene is a noncollagenous extracellular matrix(ECM) protein. It consists of five identical glycoprotein subunits, each withEGF-like and calcium-binding (thr...
CPB2: Carboxypeptidases are enzymes that hydrolyze C-terminal peptide bonds.The carboxypeptidase family includes metallo-, serine, and cysteine carboxypeptidases.According to their substrate specificity, these enzymes are re...
CPN1: Carboxypeptidase N is a plasma metallo-protease that cleaves basic aminoacids from the C terminal of peptides and proteins. The enzyme is importantin the regulation of peptides like kinins a...
CPQ: This gene encodes a metallopeptidase that belongs to the peptidase M28...
CRIP2: This gene encodes a putative transcription factor with two LIM zinc-bindingdomains. ...
CSRP1: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-rich protein (CSRP) family.This gene family includes a group of LIM domain proteins, which may be involvedin regula...
CTSB: This gene encodes a member of the C1 family of peptidases. Alternativesplicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least oneof these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate multiple protein products. These products include the cathepsinB light and heavy chains, which can dimerize to form the double chain formof the enzyme. T...
CTSE: This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. Alternativesplicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least oneof these ...
CTSH: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinaseimportant in the overall degradation of lysosomal proteins. It is composedof a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, ...
CTSK: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinaseinvolved in bone remodeling and resorption. This protein, which is a memberof the peptidase C1 protein fami...
CTSO: The protein encoded by the gene is a cysteine proteinase and a memberof the papain superfamily. This proteolytic enzyme is involved in c...
CTSV: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family,is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may play an important role in corneal...
DCT: Predicted to enable dopachrome isomerase activity. Involved in responseto blue li...
DPP4: The DPP4 gene encodes dipeptidyl peptidase 4, which is identical toadenosine deaminase complexing protein-2, and to the T-cell activation antigenCD26. It is an intrinsic type II transmembrane glycoprotein and a serine...
DUSP14: Dual-specificity phosphatases (DUSPs) constitute a large heterogeneoussubgroup of the type I cysteine-based protein-tyrosine phosphatase superfamily.DUSPs are characterized by their ability to depho...
DUSP6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificityprotein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their targetkinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosineresidues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein(MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), wh...
F10: This gene encodes the vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor X of theblood coagulation cascade. This factor undergoes multiple processing stepsbefore its preproprotein is converted to a mature two-chain form by the excisionof the tripeptide RKR. Two chains of the factor are held together by 1 ormore disulfide bonds; the light chain contains 2 EGF-like d...
F11: This gene encodes coagulation factor XI of the blood coagulation cascade.This protein is present in plasma as a zymogen, which is a unique plasma coagulationenzyme because it exists as a homodimer consisting of two identical polypeptidechains linked ...
F12: This gene encodes coagulation factor XII which circulates in blood asa zymogen. This single chain zymogen is converted to a two-chain serine proteasewith an heavy chain (alpha-factor XIIa) and a light chain. The heavy chaincontains two fibronectin-type domains, two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-likedomains, a kringle domain and a proline-rich domain, whe...
F13B: This gene encodes coagulation factor XIII B subunit. Coagulation factorXIII is the last zymogen to become activated in the blood coagulation cascade.Plasma factor XIII is a heterotetramer composed of 2 A subunits and 2 B subunits.The A subunits have catalytic function, and the B subunits do not have enzymaticactivity and may serve as a plasma carrier molecules. Platelet factor XIIIis compri...
F2: This gene encodes the prothrombin protein (also known as coagulation factorII). This protein is proteolytically cleaved in multiple steps to form theactivated serine protease thrombin. The activated thrombin enzyme plays animportant role in thrombosis and hemostasis by converting fibrinogen to fibrinduring blood clot f...
F2RL2: This gene encodes a member of the protease-activated receptor (PAR)family which is a subfamily of the seven transmembrane G protein-coupled cellsurface receptor fam...
F3: This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, andit functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiationof the coagulation protease cascades by specific limited proteolysis. Unlikethe other cofactors of...
F8: This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsicpathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which,in the presence of Ca+2 and phospholipids, converts factor X to the activatedform Xa.  This gene produces two alter...
F9: This gene encodes vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor IX that circulatesin the blood as an inactive zymogen. This factor is converted to an activeform by factor XIa, which excises the activation peptide and thus generatesa heavy chain and a light chain held together by one o...
FBN1: This gene encodes a member of the fibrillin family of proteins. Theencoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate two proteinsincluding the extracellular matrix component fibrillin-1 and the protein hormoneasprosin. Fibrillin-1 is an extracellular ma...
FGA: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the coagulation factor fibrinogen,which is a component of the blood clot. Following vascular injury, the encodedpreproprotein is proteolytically...
FGG: The protein encoded by this gene is the gamma component of fibrinogen,a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptidechains. Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to formfibr...
FN1: This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimericform in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface andin extracellular matrix. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processedto ...
FURIN: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertasefamily, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursorstrafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway.It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease that is expressed in many tissues,including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and brain. The encoded protein undergoesan initial autocatalytic processing event in the ER ...
FYN: This gene is a member of the protein-tyrosine kinase oncogene family.It encodes a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase that has bee...
GDA: This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the hydrolytic deaminationof guanine. Studies i...
GNB2: Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), whichintegrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed ofan alpha, a beta, and ...
GNG12: Enables PDZ domain binding activity. Predicted to be involved in...
GP1BA: Glycoprotein Ib (GP Ib) is a platelet surface membrane glycoproteincomposed of a heterodimer, an alpha chain and a beta chain, that is linkedby disulfide bonds. The Gp Ib functions as a receptor for von Willebrand factor(VWF). The complete receptor complex includes noncovalent association of thealpha and beta subunits with p...
GP9: This gene encodes a small membrane glycoprotein found on the surfaceof human platelets. It forms a 1-to-1 noncovalent complex with glycoproteinIb, a platelet surface membrane glycoprotein complex that fun...
GSN: The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomersand filaments to prevent monomer exchange. The encoded calcium...
HMGCS2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA synthase family.It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the first reaction of ketogenesis,a metab...
HNF4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcription factorwhich binds DNA as a homodimer. The encoded protein controls the expressionof several genes, including hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha, a...
HPN: This gene encodes a type II transmembrane serine protease that may beinvolved in diverse cellular functions, including blood coagulation and themaintenance of cell morphology. Expre...
HRG: This histidine-rich glycoprotein contains two cystatin-like domains andis located in plasma and platelets. The physiological function has not beendetermined but it is known that the protein binds heme, dyes and divalentmetal ions. The encoded p...
HTRA1: This gene encodes a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases.This protein is a secreted enzyme that is proposed to regulate the avail...
ISCU: This gene encodes a component of the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster scaffold.Fe-S clusters are cofactors that play a role in the function of a diverseset of enzymes, including those that regulate metabolism, iron homeostasis,and oxidative stress res...
ITGA2: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of a transmembrane receptor forcollagens and related proteins. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer witha beta subunit and mediates the adhesion of platelets...
ITGB3: The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrinsare integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a be...
ITIH1: This gene encodes a member of the inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants,at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is ...
KLF7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Kruppel-like transcriptionalregulator family. Members in this family regulate cell proliferation, differentiationand survival and contain three C2H2 zinc...
KLK8: Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiologicalfunctions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicatedin carcinogenesis and some have potential as no...
KLKB1: This gene encodes a glycoprotein that participates in the surface-dependentactivation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, kinin generation and inflammation.The encoded preproprotein present in plasma as...
LAMP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of membraneglycoproteins. This glycoprotein provides selectins with carbohy...
LEFTY2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforminggrowth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteo...
LGMN: This gene encodes a cysteine protease that has a strict specificityfor hydrolysis of asparaginyl bonds. This enzyme may be involved in the processingof bacterial peptides and endogenous proteins for MHC class II presentationin the lysosomal/endosomal systems. Enzyme activation is...
LRP1: This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor familyof proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furinto generate 515 kDa and 85 kDa subunits that form the mature receptor (PMID:8546712). This receptor ...
LTA4H: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that contains both hydrolaseand aminopeptidase activities. The hydrolase activity is used in the finalstep of the biosynt...
MAFF: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcriptionfactor that lacks a transactivation domain. It is known to bind the US-2 DNAelement in the promoter of the oxytocin receptor (OTR) gene and most...
MASP2: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate A and Bchains that heterodimerize to form the mature protease. This protease cleavescomplement co...
MBL2: This gene encodes the soluble mannose-binding lectin or mannose-bindingprotein found in serum. The protein encoded belongs to the collectin familyand is an important element in the innat...
MEP1A: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase activity. Predicted to be...
MMP1: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellularmatrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction,and tissue remodeling, as...
MMP10: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellularmatrix in normal physiological processes, such as ...
MMP11: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involvedin the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes,such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as wellas in d...
MMP14: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involvedin the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes,such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as wellas in disease processes, such as...
MMP15: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family and membrane-typesubfamily of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family areinvolved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiologicalp...
MMP2: This gene is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family,that are zinc-dependent enzymes capable of cleaving components of the extracellularmatrix and molecules involved in signal transduction. The protein encodedby this gene is a gelatinase A, type IV collagenase, that contains three fibronectintype II repeats in its catalytic site that al...
MMP3: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved inthe breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, suchas embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well asin disease proces...
MMP7: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellularmatrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction,and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease pr...
MMP8: This gene encodes a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) familyof proteins. These proteins are involved in the breakdown of extracellularmatrix in embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeli...
MMP9: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved inthe breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, suchas embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well asin dise...
MSRB2: Predicted to enable actin binding activity; peptide-methionine (R)-S-oxidereductase activity; and zinc ion b...
MST1: The protein encoded by this gene contains four kringle domains and aserine protease domain, similar to that found in hepatic growth factor. Despitethe presence of the ser...
OLR1: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs tothe C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated through the cyclic AMPsignaling pathway. The encoded protein binds, internal...
P2RY1: The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupledreceptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacologicalselectivity, which ...
PDGFB: This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of bothplatelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors(VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generateplatelet-derived growth factor subunit B, which can homodime...
PECAM1: The protein encoded by this gene is found on the surface of platelets,monocytes, neutrophils, and some types of T-cells, a...
PEF1: This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein belonging to the penta-EF-handprotein family. The encoded protein has been shown t...
PF4: This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokineis released from the alpha granules of activated platelets in the form ofa homotetramer ...
PLAT: This gene encodes tissue-type plasminogen activator, a secreted serineprotease that converts the proenzyme plasminogen to plasmin, a fibrinolyticenzyme. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by plasminor trypsin to generate heavy and lig...
PLAU: This gene encodes a secreted serine protease that converts plasminogento plasmin. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generateA and B polypeptide chains. These chains associate via a single disulfidebond to form the catalytically inactive high molecu...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; proteinhomodimerization activity; and protein kinase C binding activit...
PLG: The plasminogen protein encoded by this gene is a serine protease thatcirculates in blood plasma as an inactive zymogen and is converted to theactive protease, plasmin, by several plasminogen activators such as tissueplasminogen activator (tPA), urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), kallikrein,and factor XII (Hageman factor). The conversion of plasminogen to plasmininvolves the cleavage of the peptide bond between Arg-561 and Val-562. Plasmincleavage also releases the angiostatin protein which inhibits angiogenesis.Plasmin deg...
PREP: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic prolyl endopeptidasethat cleaves peptide bonds on the C-terminal side...
PROC: This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma glycoprotein. The encodedprotein is cleaved to its activated form by the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex.Th...
PROS1: This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein that functionsas a cofactor for the anticoagulant protease, activated protein C (APC) toinhibit blood coagulation. It is found in plasma in both a free, fu...
PROZ: This gene encodes a liver vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein that is synthesizedin the liver and secreted into the plasma. The encoded protein plays a rolein regulating blood coagulation by...
PRSS23: This gene encodes a conserved member of the trypsin family of serineproteases. Mouse...
RABIF: This gene encodes a member of the SCE4/YPT1/RAB family of small GTP-bindingproteins that are involved in the...
RAC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RASsuperfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superf...
RAPGEF3: Enables guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein domainspecific binding activity. Involved in several processes, including positiveregulation of protein...
RGN: The protein encoded by this gene is a highly conserved, calcium-bindingprotein, that is preferentially expressed in the liver and kidney. It mayhave an...
S100A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved inth...
S100A13: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved inthe regulation of a number of cellular processe...
SERPINA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine protease inhibitorbelonging to the serpin superfamily whose targets include elastase, plasmin,thrombin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, and plasminogen ...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity.Predicted to be involved in negativ...
SERPINC1: The protein encoded by this gene, antithrombin III, is a plasmaprotease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily. This protein inhibitsthrombin as well as other activated serine proteases of the coagulation system,and it regulates the blood coagulation cas...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin)superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogenactivator (tPA) and u...
SERPING1: This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involvedin the regulation of the complement cascade. Its encoded protein, C1 inhibitor,inhibits act...
SH2B2: The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in B lymphocytes andcontains pleckstrin homology and src homology 2 (SH2) domains. In Burkitt''s...
SIRT2: This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologsto the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterizedby a sirtuin core domain and grouped into four classes. The functions of humansirtu...
SPARC: This gene encodes a cysteine-rich acidic matrix-associated protein.The encoded protein is required for the collagen in bone to become calcifiedbut is also involved in extr...
TF: This gene encodes a glycoprotein with an approximate molecular weightof 76.5 kDa. It is thought to have been created as a result of an ancientgene duplication event that led to generation of homologous C an...
TFPI2: This gene encodes a member of the Kunitz-type serine proteinase inhibitorfamily. The protein can inhibit a variety of serine proteases...
THBD: The protein encoded by this intronless gene is an endothelial-specifictype I membrane receptor that binds thrombin. This bindin...
THBS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a disulfide-linkedhomotrimeric protein. This protein is an adhesive glycoprotein that med...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix.In addition to its inhibitory role ag...
TIMP3: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases, a groupof peptidases invol...
TMPRSS6: The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane serineproteinase that is found atta...
USP11: Protein ubiquitination controls many intracellular processes, includingcell cycle progression, transcriptional activation, and signal transduction.This dynamic process, ...
VWF: This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in hemostasis. The encodedpreproprotein is proteolytically processed following assembly into large multimericco...
WDR1: This gene encodes a protein containing 9 WD repeats. WD repeats areapproximately 30- to 40-amino acid domains containing several conserved resi...
////
AAAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the WD-repeat familyof regulatory proteins and may be involved in normal development of the peripheraland central nervo...
ADA: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosineto inosine in the purine catabolic pathway. Various mutations have been describedfor this gene and have been linked to human disease...
ADCY6: This gene encodes a member of the adenylyl cyclase family of proteins,which are required for the synthesis of cyclic AMP. All members of this familyhave an intracellular N-terminus, a tandem repeat of six transmembrane domainsseparated by a cytoplasmic loop, and ...
ADRM1: This gene encodes a member of the adhesion regulating molecule 1 proteinfamily. The encoded protein is a component of the proteasome where it actsas a ubiquitin receptor and recruits ...
AGO4: This gene encodes a member of the Argonaute family of proteins whichcontain PAZ and PIWI domains ...
AK1: This gene encodes an adenylate kinase enzyme involved in energy metabolismand homeostasis of cellular adenine nucleotide ratios in different intracellularcompartments. This gene is highly expressed i...
AK3: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTP:ATP phosphotransferase thatis fo...
ALYREF: The protein encoded by this gene is a heat stable, nuclear proteinand functions as a m...
APRT: Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase belongs to the purine/pyrimidine phosphoribosyltransferasefamily. A conserved feature of this gene is the distribution of CpG dinucleotides.This enzyme c...
ARL6IP1: This gene belongs to the ARL6ip family and encodes a transmembraneprotein that is predominantly localized to intracytoplasmic membranes. Itis highly expressed ...
BCAM: This gene encodes Lutheran blood group glycoprotein, a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily and a receptor for the extracellular matrix protein,laminin. The protein contains five extracellular immunoglobulin domains, asingle transmembrane dom...
BCAP31: This gene encodes a member of the B-cell receptor associated protein31 superfamily. The encoded protein is a multi-pass transmembrane proteinof the endoplasmic reticulum that is involved in the ant...
BOLA2: This gene is located within a region of a segmental duplication onchromosome 16 and is identical to BOLA2B (bolA family member 2B). The productof this gene belongs to a family of proteins that are widely conserved an...
BRF2: This gene encodes one of the multiple subunits of the RNA polymeraseIII transcription factor complex required for transcription of gen...
CANT1: This protein encoded by this gene belongs to the apyrase family. Itfunctions as a calcium-dependent nucleo...
CCNO: This gene encodes a member of the cyclin protein family, and the encodedprotein is involved in regulation of the cell cycle. Disruption of this geneis associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia-19. Alternative splicing resultsin m...
CDA: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encodedprotein forms a homotetramer that catalyzes the irreversible hydrolytic deaminationof cytidine an...
CETN2: Caltractin belongs to a family of calcium-binding proteins and is astructural component of the centrosome.  The high level of conservation ...
CLP1: This gene encodes a member of the Clp1 family. The encoded protein isa multifunctional kinase which is a component of the tRNA splicing endonucleasecomplex and...
CMPK2: This gene encodes one of the enzymes in the nucleotide synthesis salvagepathway that m...
COX17: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrialrespiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochromec to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalyticsubunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits...
CSTF3: The protein encoded by this gene is one of three (including CSTF1 andCSTF2) cleavage stimulation factors that combine to form the cleavage stimulationfactor co...
DAD1: DAD1, the defender against apoptotic cell death, was initially identifiedas a negative regulator of programmed cell death in the temperature sensitivetsBN7 cell line.  The DAD1 protein disapp...
DCTN4: Enables protein N-terminus binding acti...
DDB1: The protein encoded by this gene is the large subunit (p127) of theheterodimeric DNA damage-binding (DDB) complex while another protein (p48)forms the small subunit. This protein complex functions in nucleotide-excisionrepair and binds to DNA following UV damage. Defective activity of this complexcauses the repair defect in patients with xeroder...
DDB2: This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for the repair of ultravioletlight-damaged DNA. This protein is the smaller subunit of a heterodimericprotein complex that participates in nucleotide excision repair, and thiscomplex mediates the ubiquity...
DGCR8: This gene encodes a subunit of the microprocessor complex which mediatesthe biogenesis of microRNAs from the primary microRNA transcript. The encodedprotein is a doub...
DGUOK: In mammalian cells, the phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosidesis mediated predominantly by two deoxyribonucleoside kinases, cytosolic deoxycytidinekinase and mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase. The protein enco...
DUT: This gene encodes an essential enzyme of nucleotide metabolism. The encodedprotein forms a ubiquitous, homotetrameric enzyme that hydrolyzes dUTP todUMP and pyrophosphate. This reaction serves two cellular purposes: providinga precursor (dUMP) for the synthesis of thymine...
EDF1: This gene encodes a protein that may regulate endothelial cell differentiation,lipid metabolism, and hormone-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrop...
EIF1B: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in transl...
ELL: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof transcription, DNA-templa...
ELOA: This gene encodes the protein elongin A, which is a subunit of the transcriptionfactor B (SIII) complex. The SIII complex is composed of elongins A/A2, Band C. It activates elongation by RNA polymerase II by suppressing transie...
ERCC1: The product of this gene functions in the nucleotide excision repairpathway, and is required for the repair of DNA lesions such as those inducedby UV light or formed by electrophilic compounds including cisplatin. Theencoded protein forms a heterodimer with the XPF endonuclease (also knownas ERCC4...
ERCC2: The nucleotide excision repair pathway is a mechanism to repair damageto DNA. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in transcription-couplednucleotide excision repair and is an integral member of the basal transc...
ERCC3: This gene encodes an ATP-dependent DNA helicase that functions in nucleotideexcision repair. The encoded protein is a subunit of basal trans...
ERCC4: The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with ERCC1 and isinvolved in the 5'' incision made during nucleotide excis...
ERCC5: This gene encodes a single-strand specific DNA endonuclease that makesthe 3'' incision in DNA excision repair following UV-induced damage. The proteinmay also function in other cellular processes, including RNA polymerase IItranscription, and transcription-coupled DNA repair. Mutatio...
ERCC8: This gene encodes a WD repeat protein, which interacts with Cockaynesyndrome type B (CSB) protein and with p44 protein, a subunit of the RNA polymeraseII transcription fac...
FEN1: The protein encoded by this gene removes 5'' overhanging flaps in DNArepair and processes the 5'' ends of Okazaki fragments in lagging strand DNAsynthesis. Direct physical interaction between this protein and AP endonuclease1 during long-patch base excision repair provides coordinated loading of t...
GMPR2: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the irreversible and NADPH-dependentreductive deamination of guanosine mo...
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organichydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates,which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme hasa high preference for lipid hydroperoxides and protects cells against membranelipid perox...
GSDME: Hearing impairment is a heterogeneous condition with over 40 loci described.The protein encoded by this gene is expresse...
GTF2A2: Accurate transcription initiation on TATA-containing class II genesinvolves the ordered assembly of RNA polymerase II (POLR2A; MIM 180660) andthe general initiation factors TFIIA, TFIIB (MIM 189963), TFIID (MIM 313650),TFIIE (MIM 189962), TFIIF (MIM 189968), TFIIG/TFIIJ, and TFIIH (M...
GTF2B: This gene encodes the general transcription factor IIB, one of theubiquitous factors required for transcription initiation by RNA polymeraseI...
GTF2F1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; phosphatase activator activity; and promoter-specificchroma...
GTF2H1: Enables thyroid hormone receptor binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of transcription, DNA-t...
GTF2H3: This gene encodes a member of the TFB4 family. The encoded proteinis a subunit of the core-TFIIH basal transcription factor and localizes tothe nucleu...
GTF2H5: This gene encodes a subunit of transcription/repair factor TFIIH,which functions in gene transcription and DNA repair. This...
GTF3C5: Predicted to contribute to DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin 5S class rRNA transcription by RNA polymeras...
GUK1: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the transferof a phosphate group from ATP to guanosine mon...
HCLS1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesse...
HPRT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzesconversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine...
IMPDH2: This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in the de novo guaninenucleotide biosynthesis. It is thus involved in maintaining cellular guaninedeoxy- and ribonucleotide ...
ITPA: This gene encodes an inosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase. Theencoded protein hydrolyzes inosine triphosphate and deoxyinosine triphosphateto the monophosphate nucleotide and...
LIG1: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-dependent DNA ligase protein family.The encoded protein functions in DNA replication, recombination, and the baseexci...
MPC2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin mitochondrial pyruvate transmembrane transport. Predicte...
MPG: Predicted to enable alkylbase DNA N-glycosylase activity. Predic...
MRPL40: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nucleargenes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrialribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA com...
NCBP2: The product of this gene is a component of the nuclear cap-bindingprotein complex (CBC), which binds to the monomethylated 5'' cap of nascentpre-mRNA in the nucleoplas...
NELFB: NELFB is a subunit of negative elongation factor (NELF), which alsoincludes NELFA (WHSC2; MIM 606026), either NELFC or NELFD (TH1L; MIM 605297),...
NELFCD: The NELF complex of proteins interacts with the DSIF protein complexto repress transcriptional elongation by RNA...
NELFE: The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex termed negativeelongation factor (NELF) which represses RNA polymerase II transcript elongation.This protein bears s...
NFX1: MHC class II gene expression is controlled primarily at the transcriptionallevel by transcription factors that bind to the X and Y boxes, two highlyconserved elements in the proximal promoter of MHC class II genes. The...
NME1: This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcriptlevels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) existsas a hexamer composed of ''A'' (encoded by this gene) and ''B'' (encod...
NME3: Predicted to enable nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Predictedto b...
NME4: The nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) kinases (EC 2.7.4.6) are ubiquitousenzymes that catalyze transfer of gamma-phospha...
NPR2: This gene encodes natriuretic peptide receptor B, one of two integralmembrane receptors for natriuretic peptides. Both NPR1 and NPR2 contain fivefunctional domains: an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a single mem...
NT5C: This gene encodes a nucleotidase that catalyzes the dephosphorylationof the 5'' deoxyribonucleotides (dNTP) and 2''(3'')-dNTP and ribonucleotides,but not ...
NT5C3A: This gene encodes a member of the 5''-nucleotidase family of enzymesthat catalyze the dephosphorylation of nucleoside 5''-monophosphates. Theencoded protein is the type 1 isozyme of pyrimidine 5'' nu...
NUDT21: The protein encoded by this gene is one subunit of a cleavage factorrequired for 3'' RNA cleavage and polyadenylation processing. The interactio...
NUDT9: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Nudix hydrolase family.Nudix boxes are found in a family of diverse enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysisof nucleoside d...
PCNA: The protein encoded by this gene is found in the nucleus and is a cofactorof DNA polymerase delta. The encoded protein acts as a homotrimer and helpsincrease the processivity ...
PDE4B: This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclicnucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family. The encoded protein regulates thecellular concen...
PDE6G: This gene encodes the gamma subunit of cyclic GMP-phosphodiesterase,which is composed of alpha- and beta- catalytic subunits and two identical,inhibitory gamma subunit...
PNP: This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysisof purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, containing three identicalsubunits. Mutations which result in nucleos...
POLA1: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase, which togetherwith a regulato...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA replication,synt...
POLB: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA polymerase involved in baseexcision and repair, also called gap-filling DNA synthesis. Th...
POLD1: This gene encodes the 125-kDa catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta.DNA polymerase delta possesses both polymerase and 3'' t...
POLD3: This gene encodes the 66-kDa subunit of DNA polymerase delta. DNA polymerasedelta possesses both polymerase and 3'' to 5'' exonuclease activity and playsa critical r...
POLD4: This gene encodes the smallest subunit of DNA polymerase delta. DNApolymerase delta possesses both polymerase and 3'' to 5'' exonuclease activityand plays a critical rol...
POLE4: POLE4 is a histone-fold protein that interacts with other histone-foldproteins to bind DNA...
POLH: This gene encodes a member of the Y family of specialized DNA polymerases.It copies undamaged DNA with a lower fidelity than other DNA-directed polymerases.However, it accurately replicates UV-damaged DNA; when thymine dimers arepres...
POLL: This gene encodes a DNA polymerase. DNA polymerases catalyze DNA-template-directedextension of the 3''-end of a DNA strand. ...
POLR1C: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of both RNA polymeraseI and RNA polymerase III complexes. The encoded prot...
POLR1D: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the RNA polymeraseI and RNA polymerase III complexes, which function in the s...
POLR1H: This gene encodes a DNA-directed RNA polymerase I subunit. The encodedprotein contains two potential zinc-binding mot...
POLR2A: This gene encodes the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymeraseresponsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. The product of thisgene contains a carboxy terminal domain compo...
POLR2C: This gene encodes the third largest subunit of RNA polymerase II,the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryot...
POLR2D: This gene encodes the fourth largest subunit of RNA polymerase II,the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. I...
POLR2E: This gene encodes the fifth largest subunit of RNA polymerase II,the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. Thissubunit is shared by the other two DNA-directed RNA polymerases and is pr...
POLR2F: This gene encodes the sixth largest subunit of RNA polymerase II,the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in euk...
POLR2G: This gene encodes the seventh largest subunit of RNA polymerase II,the polymerase responsible for syn...
POLR2H: The three eukaryotic RNA polymerases are complex multisubunit enzymesthat play a central role in the transcription of nuclear genes...
POLR2I: This gene encodes a subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase responsiblefor synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. This subunit, in combinati...
POLR2J: This gene encodes a subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase responsiblefor synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. The prod...
POLR2K: This gene encodes one of the smallest subunits of RNA polymerase II,the polyme...
POLR3C: Enables single-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of innate ...
POLR3GL: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Involved in transcr...
POM121: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that localizes to the innernuclear membrane and forms a core component of the nuclear pore complex, whichmediate...
PRIM1: The replication of DNA in eukaryotic cells is carried out by a complexchromosomal replication apparatus, in which DNA polymerase alpha and primase...
RAD51: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family.RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombinationand repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ss...
RAD52: The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad52, a protein important for DNA double-strand break repair andhomologous recombination. This gene product was shown to bind single-strandedDNA ends, and media...
RAE1: Mutations in the Schizosaccharomyces pombe Rae1 and Saccharomyces cerevisiaeGle2 genes have been shown to result in accumulation of poly(A)-containingmRNA in the nucleus, suggesting that the encoded proteins are involved inRNA export. The prot...
RALA: The product of this gene belongs to the small GTPase superfamily, Rasfamily of proteins. GTP-binding proteins mediate ...
RBX1: This locus encodes a RING finger-like domain-containing protein. Theencoded protein interacts with cullin p...
REV3L: The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit ofDNA polymerase zeta, which fun...
RFC2: This gene encodes a member of the activator 1 small subunits family.The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and epsilonrequires the action of the accessory proteins, proliferating cell nuclearantigen (PCNA) and repli...
RFC3: The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and DNApolymerase epsilon requires the accessory proteins proliferating cell nuclearantigen (PCNA) and replication factor C (RFC). RFC, a...
RFC4: The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and DNApolymerase epsilon requires the accessory proteins proliferating cell nuclearantigen (PCNA) and replication factor C (RFC). RFC, also named act...
RFC5: This gene encodes the smallest subunit of the replication factor C complex,which consists of five distinct subunits (140, 40, 38, 37, and 36 kDa) andis required for DNA replication. This subunit interacts with the C-terminalregion...
RNMT: Enables RNA binding activity and mRNA (guanine-N7-)-methyltransferaseactivity. Involved in 7-methylguano...
RPA2: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotrimeric Replication ProteinA (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forming a nucleoproteincomplex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, being involved inDNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance, and co-ordinatingthe cellular response to DNA damage through activation of the ataxia telangiectasiaand Rad3-related protei...
RPA3: Enables damaged DNA binding activity and single-stranded DNA bindingac...
RRM2B: This gene encodes the small subunit of a p53-inducible ribonucleotidereductase. This heterotetrameric enzyme catalyzes the conversion of ribonucleosidediphosphates to deoxyribonucleoside ...
SAC3D1: Predicted to be involved in centrosome duplication and spindle assembly.Predicted to act upstream of or within negative r...
SDCBP: The protein encoded by this gene was initially identified as a moleculelinking syndecan-mediated signaling to the cytoskeleton. The syntenin proteincontains tandemly repeated PDZ domains that bind the cytoplasmic, C-terminaldomains of a variety of...
SEC61A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SECY/SEC61- alphafamily. It appears to play a crucial role in the insertion of secretory andmembrane...
SF3A3: This gene encodes subunit 3 of the splicing factor 3a protein complex.The splicing factor 3a heterotrimer includes subunits 1, 2 and 3 and is necessaryfor the in vitro conversio...
SMAD5: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the transforming growthfactor beta signaling pathway that results in an inhibitio...
SNAPC4: This gene encodes the largest subunit of the small nuclear RNA-activatingprotein (SNAP) complex. The encoded protei...
SNAPC5: This gene encodes a subunit of the small nuclear RNA (snRNA)-activatingprotein complex that plays a role in the transcription of snRNA genes. Thiscomplex...
SRSF6: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in mRNA splicing and mayplay a role in the determination of alternative splicing. The encoded nuclearprotein bel...
SSRP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a heterodimer that,along with SUPT16H, forms chromatin transcriptional elongation factor FACT.FACT interacts specifically with histones H2A/H2B to effect nucleosome disassemblyand trans...
STX3: The gene is a member of the syntaxin family. The encoded protein istargeted to the apical membrane of epithelial cells ...
SUPT4H1: This gene encodes the small subunit of DRB (5,6-dichloro-1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole)sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF) complex, which regulates mRNA processi...
SUPT5H: Enables enzyme binding activity and protein heterodimerization activity.Involved in positive regulation ...
SURF1: This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membraneand thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c oxidase complex.The protein is a member of the SURF1 family, which includes th...
TAF10: Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activitiesof more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activitiesis transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to positionthe polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainderof the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for re...
TAF12: Control of transcription by RNA polymerase II involves the basal transcriptionmachinery which is a collection of proteins. These proteins with RNA polymeraseII, assemble into complexes which are modulated by transactivator proteinsthat bind to cis-regulatory elements located adjacent to the transcriptionsta...
TAF13: Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activitiesof more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activitiesis transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to positionthe polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainderof the transc...
TAF1C: Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase I requires the formationof a complex composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and three TBP-associatedfactors (TAFs) specific...
TAF6: Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activitiesof more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activitiesis transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to positionthe polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainderof th...
TAF9: Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activitiesof more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activitiesis transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to positionthe polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainderof the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals.TFIID is compo...
TARBP2: HIV-1, the causative agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS),contains an RNA genome that produces a chromosomally integrated DNA duringthe replicative cycle. Activation of HIV-1 gene expression by the transac...
TK2: This gene encodes a deoxyribonucleoside kinase that specifically phosphorylatesthymidine, deoxycytidine, and deoxyuridine. The encoded enzyme localizes tothe mitochon...
TMED2: Involved in several processes, including Golgi organization; negativeregulation of GTPase activity;...
TP53: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptionalactivation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded proteinresponds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes,thereby inducing cell cycle a...
TSG101: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a group of apparentlyinactive homologs of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. The gene product containsa coiled-coil domain that interacts with stathmin, a cytosolic phosphoproteinimplicated ...
TYMS: Thymidylate synthase catalyzes the methylation of deoxyuridylate todeoxythymidylate using, 10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (methylene-THF) as acofactor. This function maintains the dTMP (thymidine-5-prime monophosphate)pool critical for DNA replication and repair. The enzyme ...
UMPS: This gene encodes a uridine 5''-monophosphate synthase. The encodedprotein is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of thede novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway. The first reaction is carr...
UPF3B: This gene encodes a protein that is part of a post-splicing multiproteincomplex involved in both mRNA nuclear export and mRNA surveillance. The encodedprotein is one of two functional homologs to yeast Upf3p. mRNA surveillancedetects exported mRNAs with truncated open read...
USP11: Protein ubiquitination controls many intracellular processes, includingcell cycle progression, transcriptional activation, and signal transduction.This dynamic process, ...
VPS28: This gene encodes a protein subunit of the ESCRT-I complex (endosomalcomplexes required for transport), which functions in the transpo...
VPS37B: Enables calcium-dependent protein binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation o...
VPS37D: Predicted to be involved in protein targeting to membrane; proteintargeting to vacuole; and ubi...
XPC: The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of the XPC complex,which plays an important role in the early steps of global genome nucleotideexcision repair (NER). The encoded protein is importan...
ZNF707: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity andRNA polymerase II cis-regulatory reg...
ZWINT: This gene encodes a protein that is clearly involved in kinetochorefunction although an exact role is not known. It interacts with ZW10, anotherkinetochore protein, possibly regulating ...
////
AADAT: This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to mouse and ratkynurenine aminotransferase II. The rat protein is a homodimer with two transaminaseactivities. One activity is the transaminat...
ACAA1: This gene encodes an enzyme operative in the beta-oxidation systemof the pero...
ACAA2: The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of the mitochondrial fattyacid ...
ACADL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenasefamily, which is a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes involved in fattyacid and bra...
ACADM: This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain)acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase. The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the initialstep of the mitochondrial fat...
ACADS: This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which isa member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This enzyme catalyzes ...
ACADVL: The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrialmembrane where it catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acidbeta-oxidation pa...
ACAT2: The product of this gene is an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism,and it encodes cytosolic acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. This gene shows complementaryov...
ACO2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerasefamily. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of citrate to isocitratevia cis-...
ACOT2: This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA thioesterase protein family,and is o...
ACOT8: The protein encoded by this gene is a peroxisomal thioesterase thatappears to be involved more in the oxid...
ACOX1: The protein encoded by this gene is the first enzyme of the fatty acidbeta-oxidation pathway, which catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-CoAs to 2-trans-enoyl-CoAs.It dona...
ACSL1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular...
ACSL4: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, all iso...
ACSL5: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellularlocalization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family conve...
ACSM3: Enables butyrate-CoA ligase activity. Predicted to be involved in acyl-CoAmetabolic proces...
ACSS1: This gene encodes a mitochondrial acetyl-CoA synthetase enzyme. A similarprotein in mice plays an important ...
ADH1C: This gene encodes class I alcohol dehydrogenase, gamma subunit, whichis a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme familymetabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, otheraliphatic alcohols, hy...
ADH7: This gene encodes class IV alcohol dehydrogenase 7 mu or sigma subunit,which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this familymetabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, otheraliphatic alcohols,...
ADIPOR2: The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serveas receptors for globular and full-length adiponectin...
ADSL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lyase 1 family. It isan essential enzyme involved in purine metabolism, and catalyzes two non-sequentialreactions in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway: the convers...
ALAD: The ALAD enzyme is composed of 8 identical subunits and catalyzes thecondensation of 2 molecules of delta-aminolevulinate to form porphobilinogen(a precursor of heme, cytochromes and other hemoproteins)...
ALDH1A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenasefamily. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenasein the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldeh...
ALDH3A1: Aldehyde dehydrogenases oxidize various aldehydes to the correspondingacids. They are involved in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehydeand in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters,and lipid pero...
ALDH3A2: Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major rolein the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid...
ALDH9A1: This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins.It has a high activity for oxidation of gamm...
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolaseprotein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphateand...
AOC3: This gene encodes a member of the semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidasefamily. Copper amine oxidases catalyze the oxidative conversion of aminesto aldehydes in the presence of copper and quinone cofactor. The encoded protei...
APEX1: The APEX gene encodes the major AP endonuclease in human cells. Itencodes the APEX endonuclease, a DNA repair enzyme with apurinic/apyrimidinic(AP) activity. Such AP activity sites occur frequently in DNA molecules ...
AQP7: This gene encodes a member of the aquaporin family of water-selectivemembrane channels. The encoded protein localizes to the plasma membrane andallows movement of water, glycerol and urea across cell membranes. This geneis highly expressed in the adipose tissue where the encoded protein ...
AUH: This gene encodes bifunctional mitochondrial protein that has both RNA-bindingand hydratase activities. The encoded protein is a methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratasethat catalyzes the hydration of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA,a critical step in the leucine degr...
BCKDHB: This gene encodes the E1 beta subunit of branched-chain keto aciddehydrogenase, which is a multienzyme complex associated with the inner membraneof mitochondria. This enzyme complex fu...
BLVRA: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biliverdin reductasefamily, members of which catalyze the conver...
BMPR1B: This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands ofthis receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPsare involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteinstransduc...
BPHL: This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family of hydrolyticenzymes which contain a seri...
CA2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonicanhydrase, which catalyzes reversible ...
CA4: Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes thatcatalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in avariety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-basebalance, bone resorpt...
CA6: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonicanhydrase. This protei...
CBR1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases(SDR) family, which function as...
CBR3: Carbonyl reductase 3 catalyzes the reduction of a large number of biologicallyand pharmacologically active carbonyl compoun...
CD1D: This gene encodes a divergent member of the CD1 family of transmembraneglycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibilitycomplex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. TheCD1 proteins mediate the presentati...
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein ofthe platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in plateletsand various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteinsinvolved in a variety of adhesive p...
CEL: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein secreted from thepancreas into the digestive tract and from the lactating mammary gland intohuman milk. The physiological role of this protein is in cholesterol and lipid-solublevitamin ester hydrolysis and absorp...
CIDEA: This gene encodes the homolog of the mouse protein Cidea that has beenshown to activate apoptosis. This activation of apoptosis is inhibited bythe DNA fragmentation factor DFF45 but not by caspase in...
CPOX: The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosyntheticpathway. The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in th...
CPT1A: The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiatedby the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is locatedin the outer membrane and is detergent-labile) and carnitine palmitoy...
CPT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transportedto the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together...
CRAT: This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitineacyltransferase family and a key metabolic pathway enzyme which plays an importantrole in energy homeostasis an...
CRYZ: Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme,and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrateeye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens.The former class is also called phylogenetical...
CYP1A1: This gene, CYP1A1, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamilyof enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyzemany reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroidsand other lipids. This protein localiz...
CYP4A11: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze manyreacti...
CYP4A22: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many...
D2HGDH: This gene encodes D-2hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a mitochondrialenzyme belonging to the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 family.This enzyme, whic...
DECR1: This gene encodes an accessory enzyme which participa...
DHCR24: This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductasewhich catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediatesduring cholesterol bi...
DLD: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlightingprotein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct fun...
DLST: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that belongs to the 2-oxoaciddehydrogenase family. This protein is one of the three...
ECH1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. Thegene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratasesof several species, particularly within a conserved domain characteristicof these proteins. The e...
ECHS1: The protein encoded by this gene functions in the second step of themitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. It catalyzes the hydrationof 2-tran...
ECI1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. Theprotein encoded is a key mitochondrial enzyme involved in beta-oxidation ofunsa...
ECI2: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. Theprotein encoded is a key mitochondrial enzyme involved in beta-oxidation ofunsa...
EHHADH: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme and is oneof the four enzymes of the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway. The N-terminalregion of the ...
ELOVL5: This gene belongs to the ELO family. It is highly expressed in theadrenal gland and testis, and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that islocali...
ENO2: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This isoenzyme, a homodim...
ENO3: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the adult where it mayplay a role ...
EPHX1: Epoxide hydrolase is a critical biotransformation enzyme that convertsepoxides from the degradation of aromatic compounds to trans-dihydrodiolswhich can be conjugated a...
ERP29: This gene encodes a protein which localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum (ER). It is a member of the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) proteinfamily but ...
ETFDH: This gene encodes a component of the electron-transfer system in mitochondriaand is essential for electron transfer from a numbe...
FABP1: This gene encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in liver. Fattyacid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytopl...
FABP2: The protein encoded by this gene is an intracellular fatty acid-bindingprotein that participates in the uptake, intracellular metabolism, an...
FASN: The enzyme encoded by this gene is a multifunctional protein. Its mainfunction is to catalyze the synthesis of palmitate from acetyl-CoA and ma...
FH: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzymatic component of the tricarboxylicacid (TCA) cycle, or Krebs cycle, and catalyzes the formation of L-malatefrom fumarate. It exists in both a cytosolic form and an...
FMO1: Metabolic N-oxidation of the diet-derived amino-trimethylamine (TMA)is mediated by flavin-containing monooxygenase and is subject to an inheritedFMO3 polymorphism in man resulting in a small subpopulation with reduced TMAN-oxidation cap...
G0S2: Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway and positive ...
GABARAPL1: Enables Tat protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity. Predicted to be invo...
GAD2: This gene encodes one of several forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase,identified as a major autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes. The enzymeencoded is responsible for catalyzing the production of...
GAPDHS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatedehydrogenase family of enzymes that play an important role in carbohydratemetabolism. Like its somatic cell counterpart, thi...
GCDH: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenasefamily. It catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoAand CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-...
GLUL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutamine synthetasefamily. It catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammoniain an ATP-dependent reaction. This protein plays a role in ammonia and glutamatedetoxification, acid-bas...
GPD1: This gene encodes a member of the NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphatedehydrogenase family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in carbohydrateand lipid metabolism by catalyzing the reversible conversion of dihydroxyacetonephosphate (DHAP) a...
GPD2: The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrialmembrane and catalyzes the conversion of glycerol-3-phosphate to dihy...
GRHPR: This gene encodes an enzyme with hydroxypyruvate reductase, glyoxylatereductase, and D-glycerate...
GSTZ1: This gene is a member of the glutathione S-transferase (GSTs) super-familywhich encodes multifunctional enzymes important in the detoxification of electrophilicmolecules, including carcinogens,...
H2AZ1: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octamer composed of pairs of each ofthe four core hist...
HADH: This gene is a member of the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene family.The encoded protein functions in the mitochondrial matrix to catalyze theoxidation of s...
HADHB: This gene encodes the beta subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctionalprotein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidationof long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplexis composed of four alpha and four...
HAO2: This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidaseactivity. The encoded ...
HCCS: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that covalently linksa heme group to the apoprotein o...
HIBCH: This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of both HIBYL-CoAand beta-hydroxypropi...
HMGCL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase family.It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the final step o...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be involvedin acetyl-CoA metabolic pro...
HMGCS2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA synthase family.It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the first reaction of ketogenesis,a metab...
HPGD: This gene encodes a member of the short-chain nonmetalloenzyme alcoholdehydrogenase protein family. The encoded enzyme is responsible for the metabolismof prosta...
HSD17B10: This gene encodes 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase type II, a memberof the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The gene product isa mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the oxidation of a wide variety offatty aci...
HSD17B11: Short-chain alcohol dehydrogenases, such as HSD17B11, ...
HSD17B4: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that isinvolved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids. It alsoacts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA interm...
HSD17B7: HSD17B7 encodes an enzyme that functions both as a 17-beta-hydroxysteroiddehydrogenase (EC 1.1....
HSDL2: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity. ...
HSP90AA1: The protein encoded by this gene is an inducible molecular chaperonethat functions as a homodimer. The encoded pro...
HSPH1: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family of proteins.The encoded protein functions as a nucleotide exchange factor for the molecularchaperone heat sh...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, andtwo NADP(+)-dependent isocitr...
IDH3B: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenases, w...
IDH3G: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondri...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversionof isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to its highly electrophilic isomer, dimethylallyldipho...
IL4I1: This gene encodes a secreted L-amino acid oxidase protein which primarilycatabolizes L-phenylalanine and, to a lesser extent, L-arginine. The expressionof this gene is induced by the cytokine interleukin 4 in B cells. This geneis also expressed i...
INMT: N-methylation of endogenous and xenobiotic compounds is a major methodby which they are degraded. This gene encodes an enzyme that N-methylatesindoles such as tryptamine. Alternative splicin...
KMT5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a protein-lysine N-methyltransferasethat can monomethylate L...
LDHA: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactateand NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis. Theprotein is found pr...
LGALS1: The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins implicatedin modula...
LTC4S: The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathionemetabolism) family includes a number of human proteins, several of which areinvolved the production of leukotrienes. This...
MAOA: This gene is one of two neighboring gene family members that encodemitochondrial enzymes which catalyze the oxidative deamination of amines,such as dopam...
MCEE: The product of this gene catalyzes the interconversion of D- and L-methylmalonyl-CoAduring the degradation of branch...
MDH1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD/NADH-dependent, reversibleoxidation of malate to oxaloacetate in many metabolic pathways, includingthe citric acid cycle. Two main isozymes are known to exist in eukaryoticcells: one is found in the mitochondrial matrix and the other in the cytopla...
MDH2: Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate tooxaloacetate, utilizing the NAD/NADH cofactor system in the citric acid cycle.The p...
ME1: This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPHfor fatty acid biosynthesis. The activity of this enzyme, the reversib...
METAP1: Predicted to enable aminopeptidase activity and metalloexopeptida...
MGLL: This gene encodes a serine hydrolase of the AB hydrolase superfamilythat catalyzes the conversion of monoacylglycerides to free fatty acids andglycerol. The encoded protein pla...
MIF: This gene encodes a lymphokine involved in cell-mediated immunity, immunoregulation,and inflammation. It plays a role in the regulation of macropha...
MIX23: Predicted to be located in mitochondrial intermemb...
MLYCD: The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA toacetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acidbiosynthesis...
NBN: Mutations in this gene are associated with Nijmegen breakage syndrome,an autosomal recessive chromosomal instability syndrome characterized by microcephaly,gro...
NCAPH2: This gene encodes one of the non-SMC subunits of the condensin IIcomplex. This ...
NSDHL: The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the endoplasmic reticulumand is involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene...
NTHL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA N-glycosylase of the endonucleaseIII family. Like a simil...
ODC1: This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesispathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for theenzyme varies in response to growth-pr...
OSTC: Predicted to contribute to dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-proteinglycotransferase a...
PCBD1: This gene encodes a member of the pterin-4-alpha-carbinolamine dehydratasefamily. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting proteinbased on its ability ...
PDHA1: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrialmultienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoAand CO(2), and provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylicacid (TCA) cycle. The PDH complex is composed o...
PDHB: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrialmultienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoAand carbon dioxide, and provides the primary link between glycolysis and thetricarbo...
PPARA: Peroxisome proliferators include hypolipidemic drugs, herbicides, leukotrieneantagonists, and plasticizers; this term arises because they induce an increasein the size and number of peroxisomes. Peroxisomes are subcellular organellesfound in plants and animals that contain enzymes for respiration and for cholesteroland...
PRDX6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the thiol-specificantioxidant protein family. This protein is a bifunctional enzyme with twodisti...
PSME1: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits.The 19S regulator is composed of a base, which contains 6 ATPase subunitsand 2 non-ATPase subunits, and a...
PTPRG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitoticcycle, and oncogenic transfo...
PTS: The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the elimination of inorganictriphosphate from dihydroneopterin triphosphate, which is the second and irreversibleste...
RAP1GDS1: The smg GDP dissociation stimulator (smgGDS) protein is a s...
RDH11: The protein encoded by this gene is an NADPH-dependent retinal redu...
RDH16: Enables NAD-retinol dehydrogenase activity; androstan-3-alpha,17-beta-dioldehydrogenase acti...
REEP6: The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the transport ofreceptors from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the cell surf...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reductase activity...
S100A10: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplas...
SDHA: This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinoneoxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The complexis composed of four nuclear-encoded ...
SDHC: This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprisesuccinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, a key enzymecomplex of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and aerobic respiratory...
SDHD: This gene encodes a member of complex II of the respiratory chain, whichis responsible for the oxidation of succinate. The encoded protein is oneof two integral membrane proteins anchoring the complex to the matrix...
SERINC1: Predicted to enable protein-macromolecule adaptor activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including phosphatidylserine metabolicprocess; ...
SLC22A5: Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine,and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organiccations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. The encodedprotein is a plasma integral membrane prote...
SMS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the spermidine/spermin synthasefamily and catalyzes the production of spermine from spermidine. P...
SUCLA2: Succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme thatacts as a heterodimer, being composed of an invariant alpha subunit and asubstrate-specific beta subunit. The protein encod...
SUCLG1: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric enzyme succinatecoenzyme A ligase. This enzyme is targeted to the m...
SUCLG2: This gene encodes a GTP-specific beta subunit of succinyl-CoA synthetase.Succinyl-CoA synthetase catalyzes th...
TDO2: This gene encodes a heme enzyme that plays a critical role in tryptophanmetabolism by catalyzing the first and rate-limiting step of the kyn...
TP53INP2: The protein encoded by this gene promotes autophagy and is essentialfor proper autophagosome formation and processing. I...
UBE2L6: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes...
UGDH: The protein encoded by this gene converts UDP-glucose to UDP-glucuronateand thereby participates in the biosynthesis of glycosaminoglycans such ashyaluronan, chondroitin sulfate, and hepa...
UROD: This gene encodes an enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. This enzymeis responsible for catalyzing the conversion of...
UROS: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth step of porphyrinbios...
VNN1: This gene encodes a member of the vanin family of proteins, which shareextensive sequence similarity with each other, and also with biotinidase.The family includes secreted and membrane-associated proteins, a few of whichhave been reported to participate in hematopoietic cel...
XIST: X inactivation is an early developmental process in mammalian femalesthat transcriptionally silences one of the pair of X chromosomes, thus providingdosage equivalence between males and females. The process is regulated byseveral factors, including a region of chromosome X c...
YWHAH: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediatesignal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. Thishighly conserved ...
////
ADD1: Adducins are a family of cytoskeletal proteins encoded by three genes(alpha, beta, and gamma). Adducin acts as a heterodimer of t...
AIFM3: Predicted to enable several functions, including 2 iron, 2 sulfur clusterbinding activit...
ANKH: This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that is expressedin joints and other tissues and controls pyrophospha...
ANXA1: This gene encodes a membrane-localized protein that binds phospholip...
APP: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursorprotein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some ofthese peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransf...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcriptionfactor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription...
AVPR1A: The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin.This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-p...
BAX: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family.BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Thisprotein forms ...
BCAP31: This gene encodes a member of the B-cell receptor associated protein31 superfamily. The encoded protein is a multi-pass transmembrane proteinof the endoplasm...
BCL10: This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associatedlymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The protein encoded by this gene containsa caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and has been shown to induce apoptos...
BCL2L1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family.BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activit...
BCL2L10: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family.BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities...
BCL2L11: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family.BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Theprot...
BCL2L2: This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteinsof this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptoticregulators. Expression of this gene in ce...
BGN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processedto genera...
BID: This gene encodes a death agonist that heterodimerizes with either agonistBAX or antagonist BCL2, and thus regulate apoptosis. The ...
BIK: The protein encoded by this gene shares a critical BH3 domain with otherdeath-promoting proteins, such as BID, BAK, BAD and ...
BIRC3: This gene encodes a member of the IAP family of proteins that inhibitapoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factorsTR...
BMF: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family.BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involv...
BMP2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors ...
BNIP3L: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamilywithin the Bcl-2 f...
BRCA1: This gene encodes a 190 kD nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a rolein maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor.The BRCA1 gene contains 22 exons spanning about 110 kb of DNA. The encodedprotein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signaltransducers to form a large multi...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family.This fa...
BTG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family.This family has structurall...
CASP1: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactiveproenzyme...
CASP2: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Caspases mediate cellular apoptosis through the proteolytic cleavageof spec...
CASP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid proteasethat plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. The encod...
CASP4: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role in the execution-phase of cell apopto...
CASP6: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family of enzymes. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central rolein the execution-phase...
CASP7: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof ...
CASP8: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain,a large protease subunit, and a small protease ...
CASP9: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive pr...
CAV1: The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component ofthe caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein linksintegrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiati...
CCNA1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct expre...
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of...
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct e...
CD14: The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentiallyexpressed on monocytes/macrophages. It cooperates with oth...
CD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen found on all peripheralbloo...
CD38: The protein encoded by this gene is a non-lineage-restricted, type IItransmembrane glycoprotein that synthesizes and hydrolyzes cyclic adenosine5''-diphosphate-ribose, an intracellular calcium ion mobilizing messenger.The ...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involvedin cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor forhyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands,...
CD69: This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamilyof type II transmem...
CDC25B: CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activatesthe cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it isr...
CDK2: This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinasesthat participate in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is the catalytic...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulatorof cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of th...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which sharesa limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein bindsto and prevent...
CFLAR: The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and isstructurally similar to caspase-8....
CLU: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can undersome stress conditions a...
CREBBP: This gene is ubiquitously expressed and is involved in the transcriptionalcoactivation of many different transcription factors. First isolated as anuclear protein that binds to cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB),this gene is now known to play critical roles in embryonic dev...
CTH: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme in the trans-sulfuration pathwaythat converts cystathione derive...
CTNNB1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteinsthat constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creationand maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cel...
CYLD: This gene is encodes a cytoplasmic protein with three cytoskeletal-associatedprotein-glycine-conserved (CAP-GL...
DAP: This gene encodes a basic, proline-rich, 15-kD protein. The protein actsas...
DAP3: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genesand help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes(mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. Theyhave an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokary...
DCN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants,at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that...
DDIT3: This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP)family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negativeinhibitor by forming heterodimers with other...
DFFA: Apoptosis is a cell death process that removes toxic and/or uselesscells during mammalian development. The apoptotic process is accompanied byshrinkage and fragmentation of the cells and nuclei and degradation o...
DIABLO: This gene encodes an inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP)-bindingprotein. The encoded mitochondrial protein enters the cytosol when cell...
DNAJA1: This gene encodes a member of the DnaJ family of proteins, which actas heat shock protein 70 cochaperones. Heat shock proteins facilitate proteinfolding, trafficking, prevention of aggregation, and pr...
DNAJC3: This gene encodes a protein with multiple tetratricopeptide repeat(TPR) motifs as well as...
DNM1L: This gene encodes a member of the dynamin superfamily of GTPases. Theencoded protein mediates mitochondrial and peroxisomal division, and is involvedin deve...
DPYD: The protein encoded by this gene is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme andthe initial and rate-limiting factor in the pathway of uracil a...
EBP: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein of theendoplasmic reticulum. It is a high affinity binding protein for the antiischemicphenylalkylamine Ca2+ antagonist [3H]emopamil and the photoaffinity label[3H]azidopamil. It is similar to sigma recept...
EGR3: This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that belongs to the EGRfamily of C2H2-type zinc-finger proteins. It is an immediate-early growthresponse gene whi...
EMP1: Involved in bleb assembly and c...
ENO2: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This i...
ERBB2: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptorfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein has no ligand binding domainof its own and therefore cannot bind growth factors. However, it does bindtightly to other ligand-bound EGF...
ERBB3: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This membrane-bound protein hasa neuregulin binding domain but not an active kinase domain. It thereforecan bind this ligand but not convey the signal into the c...
EREG: This gene encodes a secreted peptide hormone and member of the epidermalgrowth factor (EGF) family of proteins. The encoded protein is a ligand...
ETF1: This gene encodes a class-1 polypeptide chain release factor. The encodedprotein plays an essential role in directing termination of ...
F2: This gene encodes the prothrombin protein (also known as coagulation factorII). This protein is proteolytically cleaved in multiple steps to form theactivated serine protease thrombin. The activated thrombin enzyme plays animportant role in thrombosis and ...
F2R: Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involvedin the regula...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a centralrole in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has beenimplicated in the pathogenesis of various malignancies and diseas...
FASLG: This gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily. Theprimary function of the encoded transmembrane protein is the induction ofapoptosis trigger...
FDXR: This gene encodes a mitochondrial flavoprotein that initiates el...
FEZ1: This gene is an ortholog of the C. elegans unc-76 gene, which is necessaryfor normal axonal bundling and elongation within axon bundl...
GADD45A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment wit...
GADD45B: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment withDNA-damaging agents. The genes in this gr...
GCH1: This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family. The encodedprotein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4)biosynthesis, catal...
GNA15: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involved in positiveregulation of cyto...
GPX1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxidesand hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage. Other studies indicate that H2O2 is also essential for growth-factormediated signal transduction, mitochondrial function, and maintenance of thiolredox-balance; therefore, by limiting ...
GPX3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxidesand hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates,...
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organichydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates,which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme h...
GSN: The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomersand filaments to prevent monomer e...
GSR: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family. This enzyme is a homodimeric flavoprotein....
GSTM1: Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase areencoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classesof the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have beenidentified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This geneencode...
GUCY2D: This gene encodes a retina-specific guanylate cyclase, which is amember of the membrane guanylyl cyclase family. Like other membrane guanylylcyclases, ...
H1-0: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approxim...
HGF: This gene encodes a protein that binds to the hepatocyte growth factorreceptor to regulate cell growth, cell motility and morphogenesis in numerouscell and tissue types. Alternative splicing results in multiple ...
HMGB2: This gene encodes a member of the non-histone chromosomal high mobilitygroup protein family. The proteins of this family are chromatin-associatedand ubiquitously distr...
HMOX1: Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves hemeto form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bil...
HSPB1: This gene encodes a member of the small heat shock protein (HSP20)family of proteins. In response to environmental stress, the encoded proteintranslocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and fun...
IER3: This gene functions in the protection of cells from Fas- or tumor necrosisfactor...
IFITM3: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon induced antiviral prote...
IFNB1: This gene encodes a cytokine that belongs to the interferon familyof signaling proteins, which are released as part of the innate immune responseto pathogens. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the type I clas...
IFNGR1: This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of thegamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma rec...
IGF2R: This gene encodes a receptor for both insulin-like growth factor 2and mannose 6-phosphate. The binding sites for each ligand are located ondifferent segments of the protein. This receptor has various f...
IGFBP6: Enables identical protein binding activity and insulin-like growthfactor II binding activity. Involved in c...
IL18: The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine of theIL-1 family that is constitutively found as a precursor within the cytoplasmof a variety of cells including macrophage...
IL1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various immuneresponses, infl...
IL1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein,which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE).This cytokine is an important mediator of the inflammatory response...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with a...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innateand acquired immune responses. The enco...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defe...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17.It encodes a protein which is high...
KRT18: KRT18 encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 18. Keratin18, together with its filament partner kerati...
LEF1: This gene encodes a transcription factor belonging to a family of proteinsthat share homology with the high mobility group protein-1. The protein encodedby this gene can bind to a ...
LGALS3: This gene encodes a member of the galectin family of carbohydratebinding proteins. Members of this protein family have an affinity for beta-galactosides.The encoded protein is characterized by an N-termina...
LMNA: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the nuclear lamina, a two-dimensionalmatrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin familyof proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserve...
LUM: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family that includes decorin, biglycan, fibromodulin, keratocan, epiphycan,and osteoglycin. In th...
MADD: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is a signaling molecule thatinteracts with one of two receptors on cells targeted for apoptosis. The apoptoticsignal is transduced in...
MCL1: This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein, which is a member of theBcl-2 family. Alternative spli...
MGMT: Alkylating agents are potent carcinogens that can result in cell death,mutation and cancer. The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA repair proteinthat...
MMP2: This gene is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family,that are zinc-dependent enzymes capable of cleaving components of the extracellularmatrix and molecules involved in signal transduction. The protein encodedby this gene is a gelatinase A, type IV collagenase, that...
NEDD9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CRK-associatedsubstrates family. Members of this family are adhesion docking molecules thatmedi...
NEFH: Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composedof light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the...
PAK1: This gene encodes a family member of serine/threonine p21-activatingkinases, known as PAK proteins. These proteins are critical effectors thatlink RhoGTPases to cytos...
PDCD4: This gene is a tumor suppressor and encodes a protein that binds to...
PDGFRB: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface tyrosine kinasereceptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growthfactors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin. The identity of thegrowth factor ...
PEA15: This gene encodes a death effector domain-containing protein that functionsas a negative regulator of ap...
PLAT: This gene encodes tissue-type plasminogen activator, a secreted serineprotease that converts the proenzyme plasminogen to plasmin, a fibrinolyticenzyme. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically proce...
PLCB2: The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphodiesterase that catalyzesthe hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to the secon...
PLPPR4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lipid phosphate phosphatase(LPP) family. LPPs catalyze the dephosphorylation of a number of b...
PMAIP1: This gene belongs to a pro-apoptotic subfamily within the BCL-2 proteinfamily, referred to as the BCL-2 homology ...
PPP2R5B: The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2A regulatorysubunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thrphosphatases, an...
PPP3R1: Enables cyclosporin A binding activity; phosphatase binding activity;and protein domain specifi...
PPT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved inthe catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal de...
PRF1: This gene encodes a protein with structural similarities to complementcomponent C9 that is important in immunity. This protein forms membrane poresthat allow the release of granzymes a...
PSEN1: Alzheimer''s disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the diseasecarry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloidprecursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increase...
PSEN2: Alzheimer''s disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the diseasecarry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloidprecursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations re...
PTK2: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is foundconcentrated in the focal adhesions that form between cells growing in thepresence of extracellular matrix c...
RARA: This gene represents a nuclear retinoic acid receptor. The encoded protein,retinoic acid receptor alpha, regulates transcription in a...
RELA: NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in severalbiological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state byspeci...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reduct...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Invo...
RHOT2: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of GTPases. The...
RNASEL: This gene encodes a component of the interferon-regulated 2-5A systemthat functions in the antiviral and antiproliferative ...
ROCK1: This gene encodes a protein serine/threonine kinase that is activatedwhen bound to the GTP-bound form of Rho. The small GTPase Rho regulates formationof focal adhesions and stress fibers of...
SAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family,and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of po...
SATB1: This gene encodes a matrix protein which binds nuclear matrix and scaff...
SC5D: This gene encodes an enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. The encodedprotein catalyzes...
SLC20A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-phosphate symporterthat absorbs phosphate from interstitial fluid for use in cel...
SMAD7: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein that binds theE3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2. Upon binding, this complex translocates to ...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is oneof two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in thebody. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, ...
SOD2: This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family.It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetramer and binds onemanganese ion...
SPTAN1: Spectrins are a family of filamentous cytoskeletal proteins that functionas essential scaffold proteins that stabilize the plasma membrane and organizeintracellular organelles....
SQSTM1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that binds ubiquitin andregulates activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) signaling pathw...
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes ared...
TGFB2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression. The encoded prep...
TGFBR3: This locus encodes the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta typeIII receptor. The encoded receptor is a membrane proteoglycan that...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extrace...
TIMP2: This gene is a member of the TIMP gene family. The proteins encodedby this gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases,a group of peptidases involved in degradation ...
TIMP3: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteina...
TNF: This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongsto the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secretedby macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signalingp...
TNFSF10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein preferentially inducesapoptosis in transformed and tumor cells, but does not appear to kill normalcells although i...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls andalters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzymeis involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation,and the relief of torsional st...
TSPO: Present mainly in the mitochondrial compartment of peripheral tissues,the protein encoded by this gene interacts with some benzodiazepines an...
TXNIP: This gene encodes a thioredoxin-binding protein that is a member ofthe alpha arrestin protein family. Thioredoxin is a thiol-oxidoreductase thatis a major regulato...
VDAC2: This gene encodes a member of the voltage-dependent anion channel pore-formingfamily of proteins that are considered the main pathway...
WEE1: This gene encodes a nuclear protein, which is a tyrosine kinase belongingto the Ser/Thr family of ...
XIAP: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of apoptotic suppressorproteins. Members of this family share a conserved motif termed, baculovirusIAP repeat, which is necessary for their anti-apoptotic...
////
ABCB1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided into seven distinct subfamilies...
ADAM19: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteasedomain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurallyrelated to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a va...
AGER: The advanced glycosylation end product (AGE) receptor encoded by thisgene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface recep...
AHCY: S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase belongs to the adenosylhomocysteinasefamily. It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine...
AHNAK: The protein encoded by this gene is a large (700 kDa) structural scaffoldprotein consisting of a central domain with 128 aa repeats. Th...
AHR: The protein encoded by this gene is a ligand-activated helix-loop-helixtranscription factor involved in the regulation of bio...
ALCAM: This gene encodes activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM),also known as CD166 (cluster of differentiation 166), which is a ...
AMACR: This gene encodes a racemase. The encoded enzyme interconverts pristanoyl-CoAand C27-bile acylCoAs between their (R)- and (S)-stereoisomers. The conversionto the (S)-stereoisomers is necessary for...
ANXA4: Annexin IV (ANX4) belongs to the annexin family of calcium-dependentphospholipid binding proteins. Although their functions are still not clearlydefined, several members of the annexin family have...
APLP1: This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved amyloid precursorprotein gene family. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated glycoprotein...
ARL4A: ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylationfactor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4A ...
BATF: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear basic leucine zipper proteinthat belongs to the...
BATF3: This gene encodes a member of the basic leucine zipper protein family.The enc...
BCL2: This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein thatblocks the apoptotic death ...
BCL2L1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family.BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activit...
BHLHE40: This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in varioustissues. The encoded pr...
BMP2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors ...
BMPR2: This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands ofthis receptor are members of the TGF-b...
CA2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonicanhydrase, which...
CAPG: This gene encodes a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin-regulatoryproteins. The encoded protein reversibly blocks the ba...
CAPN3: Calpain, a heterodimer consisting of a large and a small subunit, isa major intracellular protease, although its function has not been well ...
CASP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid proteasethat plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. The encod...
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct e...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Differ...
CCNE1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and deg...
CCR4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptorfamily . It is a receptor for the CC chemokine - MIP-1, RANTES, TARC and M...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involvedin cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor forhyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands,...
CD48: This gene encodes a member of the CD2 subfamily of immunoglobulin-likereceptors which includes SLAM (signaling lymphocyte activation molecules)proteins. The encoded protein ...
CD79B: The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includesthe antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (...
CD81: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members arecell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four ...
CD83: The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane proteinand member of the immunoglobulin su...
CD86: This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-presentingcells, and it is the liga...
CDC42SE2: Enables signaling adaptor activity. Involv...
CDC6: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomycescerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication.This protein function...
CDCP1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which contains three extracellularCUB domains and acts as a...
CDKN1C: This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternalallele. The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inh...
CISH: The protein encoded by this gene contains a SH2 domain and a SOCS boxdomain. The protein thus belongs to the cytokine-induced STAT inhibitor (CIS),also known as suppressor of cytok...
CKAP4: Enables RNA binding activity. Located in several ce...
COCH: The protein encoded by this gene is highly conserved in human, mouse,and chicken, showing 94% and 79% amino acid identity of human to mouse andchicken sequences, respectively. Hybridization to this gene was detected inspindle-shaped cells located along nerve fibers bet...
COL6A1: The collagens are a superfamily of proteins that play a role in maintainingthe integrity of various tissues. Collagens are extracellular matrix proteinsand have a triple-helical domain as thei...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, and function of macrophag...
CSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The activeform of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This ...
CST7: The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiplecystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine proteaseinhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this in...
CTLA4: This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and encodesa protein which transmits an inhibitory signal to T cells. The protein containsa V domain, a transmembrane domain, a...
CTSZ: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinaseand member of the peptidase C1 family. It exh...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily andligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding o...
CYFIP1: This gene encodes a protein that regulates cytoskeletal dynamics andprotein translation. The encoded protein is a component of the WAVE regulatorycomplex (WRC), whic...
DCPS: This gene encodes a member of the histidine triad family of pyrophosphatasesthat removes short mRNA fragments containing the 5&#8242; mRNA cap structure,which appear in the 3&#8242; &#8594; 5&#8242; mRN...
DENND5A: This gene encodes a DENN-domain-containing protein that functionsas a RAB-activating guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). This proteincatalyzes the conversion ...
DHRS3: Short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs), such as DHRS3, c...
DRC1: This gene encodes a central component of the nexin-dyn...
ECM1: This gene encodes a soluble protein that is involved in endochondralbone formation, angiogenesis, and tumor biology. It also interacts with avariety of extracel...
EEF1AKMT1: Enables protein-lysine N-methyltransferase acti...
EMP1: Involved in bleb assembly and c...
ENO3: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the...
ENPP1: This gene is a member of the ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase(ENPP) family. The encoded protein is a type II transmembrane glycoproteincomprising two identical disulfide-bonded subunits. ...
EOMES: This gene belongs to the TBR1 (T-box brain protein 1) sub-family ofT-box genes that share the common DNA-binding T-box domain. The encoded proteinis a transcr...
ETFBKMT: Enables heat shock protein binding activity and protein-lysine N-methyltransferaseactivity. Involved ...
ETV4: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and RNA polymerase...
F2RL2: This gene encodes a member of the protease-activated receptor (PAR)family which is a subfamily of the seven transmembrane G protein-...
FAH: This gene encodes the last enzyme in the tyr...
FGL2: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein that is similarto the beta- and gamma-chains of fibr...
FLT3LG: Dendritic cells (DCs) provide the key link between innate and adaptiveimmunity by recognizing pathogens and primin...
FURIN: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertasefamily, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursorstrafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway.It encodes a type 1 membrane bound protease that is expressed in many tissues,including neuroendocrine, liver, gut, and b...
GABARAPL1: Enables Tat protein binding activity and ubiquitin protein ligasebinding activity....
GADD45B: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment withDNA-damaging agents. The genes in this gr...
GALM: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the epimerization of hexosesugars such as glucose a...
GATA1: This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcriptionfactors. The ...
GBP4: Guanylate-binding proteins, such as GBP4, a...
GLIPR2: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in positive regulationof...
GPR65: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity. Involved in several processe...
GPR83: Predicted to enable neuropeptide receptor activity. Predicted to ...
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organichydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates,which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme h...
GSTO1: The protein encoded by this gene is an omega class glutathione S-transferase(GST) with glutathione-dependent t...
GUCY1B1: This gene encodes the beta subunit of the soluble guanylate cyclase(sGC), which catalyzes the conversion of...
HIPK2: This gene encodes a conserved serine/threonine kinase that is a memberof the homeodomain-interacting protein kinase family. The...
HK2: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thefirst step in most glucose metabolism pathways....
HOPX: The protein encoded by this gene is a homeodomain protein that lackscertain conserved residues required for DNA binding. It was reported thatchoriocarcinoma...
HUWE1: This gene encodes a protein containing a C-terminal HECT (E6AP typeE3 ubiquitin protein ligase) domain that functions as an E3 ubiquitin lig...
ICOS: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CD28 and CTLA-4 ce...
IFITM3: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon induced antiviral prote...
IFNGR1: This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of thegamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma rec...
IGF1R: This receptor binds insulin-like growth factor with a high affinity.It has tyrosine kinase activity. The insulin-like growth factor ...
IGF2R: This gene encodes a receptor for both insulin-like growth factor 2and mannose 6-phosphate. The binding sites for each ligand are located ondifferent segments of the protein. This receptor has various f...
IKZF2: This gene encodes a member of the Ikaros family of zinc-finger proteins.Three members of this protein family (Ikaros, Aiolos and Helios) are hematopoie...
IKZF4: Members of the Ikaros (ZNFN1A1; MIM 603023) family of t...
IL10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine produced primarily bymonocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes. This cytokine has pleiotropiceffects in immunoregulation and inflammation. It dow...
IL10RA: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 10.This protein is structurally related to interferon receptors. It has beenshown to mediate the immu...
IL13: This gene encodes an immunoregulatory cytokine produced primarily byactivated Th2 cells. This cytokine is involved in several stages of B-cellmaturation and differentiation. It up-reg...
IL18R1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that belongsto the interleukin 1 receptor family. This receptor specifically binds interleukin18 (IL18), ...
IL1R2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that belongsto the interleukin 1 receptor family. This protein binds interleukin alpha(IL1A), interleukin beta (IL1B), and interleukin 1 recep...
IL1RL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1receptor family. Studies of the similar gene in mouse suggested that thisrecepto...
IL2RA: The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains,together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinityIL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor,while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a...
IL2RB: The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immuneresponses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit and is not involvedin signal transduction. The interm...
IL3RA: The protein encoded by this gene is an interleukin 3 specific subunitof a heterodimeric cytokine receptor. The receptor is comprised of a ligandspecific alpha subunit and a signal transducing beta subunit sh...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleu...
IRF4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the IRF (interferon regulatoryfactor) family of transcription factors, characterized by an unique tryptophanpentad repeat DNA-binding domain. The...
IRF6: This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory transcriptionfactor (IRF) family. Family members share a highly-conserved N-terminal hel...
IRF8: Interferon consensus sequence-binding protein (ICSBP) is a transcriptionfactor of the interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF) family. Proteins ofthis family are...
ITGA6: The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphachain and a beta chain that function in cell s...
ITGAE: Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed ofan alpha chain and a beta chain. This gene encodes an I-domain-containingalpha integrin that undergo...
ITGAV: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphasubunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface ad...
ITIH5: This gene encodes a heavy chain component of one of the inter-alpha-trypsininhibitor (ITI) family members. ITI proteins are involved in extra...
KLF6: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcriptionfactors. The zinc...
LCLAT1: Enables 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity...
LIF: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with rolesin several different systems. It is involved in the induction of hemat...
LRIG1: Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, includinginnervation...
LRRC8C: Enables volume-sensitive anion channel activity. Involved in cyclic...
LTB: Lymphotoxin beta is a type II membrane protein of the TNF family. Itanchors lymphotoxin-alpha to the cell surface through heterotrimer formation.The predominant form on the lymphocyte surface is the lymph...
MAFF: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcriptionfactor that lacks a transactivation domain. It is known to bind the US-2 DNAelement in the promoter...
MAP3K8: This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonineprotein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm andcan activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pa...
MAP6: This gene encodes a microtubule-associated protein. The encoded proteinis a...
MAPKAPK2: This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family.This kinase is regulated through direct phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase.In co...
MUC1: This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein that is a member of the mucinfamily. Mucins are O-glycosylated proteins that play an essential role informing protective mucous barriers on epithelial surfaces. These proteinsalso play a role in intracellular si...
MXD1: This gene encodes a member of the MYC/MAX/MAD network of basic helix-loop-helixleucine zipper transcription factors. The MYC/MAX/MAD transcription factorsmediate cellular p...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein thatplays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the r...
MYO1C: This gene encodes a member of the unconventional myosin protein family,which are actin-based molecular motors. The protein is found in the cytoplasm,and one isoform with a uni...
MYO1E: This gene encodes a member of the nonmuscle class I myosins which area subgroup of the unconventional myosin protein family. The unconventionalmyosin proteins function as actin-based molecular motors. Class I...
NCOA3: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor coactivatorthat interacts with nuclear hormone receptors to enhance their transcriptionalactivator functions. The ...
NCS1: This gene is a member of the neuronal calcium sensor gene family, whichencode calcium-binding proteins expressed predominantly in neuro...
NDRG1: This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family whichbelongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by thisgene is a cytoplasmic ...
NFIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator thatbinds as a homodimer to activating tra...
NFKBIZ: This gene is a member of the ankyrin-repeat family and is inducedby lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The C-terminal portion of the encoded productwhich contains the anky...
NOP2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of cell...
NRP1: This gene encodes one of two neuropilins, which contain specific proteindomains which allow them to participate in several different types of signalingpathways that control cell migration. Neuropilins contain a larg...
NT5E: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that catalyzesthe conversion of extracellular ...
ODC1: This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesispathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for thee...
P2RX4: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors forATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel with high calciu...
P4HA1: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
PDCD2L: Located in membrane...
PENK: This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate multiple protein products. These product...
PHLDA1: This gene encodes an evolutionarily conserved proline-histi...
PHTF2: Located in endoplasmic...
PIM1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoidand myeloid cell lines, and is overexpressed ...
PLAGL1: This gene encodes a C2H2 zinc finger protein that functions as a suppressorof cell growth. This gene is often deleted or methylated and silenced in cancercel...
PLEC: Plectin is a prominent member of an important family of structurallyand in part functionally related proteins, termed plakins or cytolinkers,that are capable of interlinking different elements of the cytoskeleton. Plakins,with their multi-domain structure and enormous size, not only play crucialroles in maintaining cell and tissue integrity and orchestrating dynamic changesin cytoarchitecture and cell shape, but also serve as scaffolding platformsfor the assembly, positioning, and regulation of signaling complexes (reviewedin PMID: 9701547, 11854008, and 17499243). Plectin is expressed as severalprotein isoforms in a wide range of cell types and tissues from a single genelocated on chromosome 8 in humans (PMID: 8633055, 8698233). Until 2010, thislocus was named plectin 1 (symbol PLEC1 in human; Plec1 in mouse and rat)and the gene product had been referred to as "hemidesmosomal pr...
PLIN2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the perilipin family, membersof which coat intracellular lipid storage droplets. This protein is associatedwith the lipid globule surface membrane material, an...
PLPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phosphatidic acidphosphatase (PAP) family. PAPs convert phosphatidic aci...
PLSCR1: This gene encodes a phospholipid scramblase family member. The encodedprotein is involved in disruption of the asymmetrical distribution of pho...
PNP: This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysisof purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, containing three identicalsubu...
POU2F1: The OCT1 transcription factor was among the first identified membersof the POU tran...
PRAF2: Predicted to be involved in L-glutamate transmembrane transport....
PRKCH: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specificprotein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messengerdiacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of proteintargets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways.PKC family ...
PRNP: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchoredglycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encodedprotein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem oct...
PTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the patched family of proteins and acomponent of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Hedgehog signaling is importantin embryonic development and tumorig...
PTGER2: This gene encodes a receptor for prostaglandin E2, a metabolite ofar...
PTH1R: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupledreceptor family 2. This protein is a receptor for parathyroid hormone (PTH)and for parathyroi...
PTRH2: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial protein with twoputative domains, an N-terminal mitochondrial localization sequence, and aUPF0099 domain. In vitro assays suggest that this protein possesses peptidyl-tRNAhydrolase activity, to release the peptidyl moiety from tRNA, thereby preventingthe accumulation of dissociated peptidyl-tRNA that could reduce the efficiency...
PUS1: This gene encodes a pseudouridine synthase that converts uridine topseudouridine once it has been incorporated into ...
RABGAP1L: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPase binding acti...
RGS16: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ''regulator of G proteinsignaling''...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase binding activity. Invo...
RHOH: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ras superfamilyof guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing enzymes. The encoded proteinis expressed in hematopoietic...
RNH1: Placental ribonuclease inhibitor (PRI) is a member of a family of proteinaceouscytoplasmic RNase inhibitors that occur in many tissues and bind to both intracellularand extracellular RNases ...
RORA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the NR1 subfamily ofnuclear hormone receptors. It can bind as a monomer or as a homodimer to hormoneresponse elements upstream of ...
RRAGD: RRAGD is a monomeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein,...
S100A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus...
SCN9A: This gene encodes a voltage-gated sodium channel which plays a significantro...
SELL: This gene encodes a cell surface adhesion molecule that belongs to afamily of adhesion/homing receptors. The encoded protein contains a C-typelectin-like domain, a calcium-bi...
SELP: This gene encodes a 140 kDa protein that is stored in the alpha-granulesof platelets and Weibel-Palade bodies of endothelial cells. This protein red...
SERPINB6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin (serineproteinase inhibitor) superfamily, and ovalbumin(ov)-serpin subfamily. Itwas originally discovered as a placental...
SERPINC1: The protein encoded by this gene, antithrombin III, is a plasmaprotease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily. This protein inhibitsthrombin as well as other activated serine proteases of the coagulat...
SH3BGRL2: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding...
SHE: Predicted to enable phosphoty...
SLC1A5: The SLC1A5 gene encodes a sodium-dependent neutral ...
SLC29A2: The uptake of nucleosides by transporters, such as SLC29A2, is essentialfor nucleotide synthesis by sa...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity; and glucose transmemb...
SLC39A8: This gene encodes a member of the SLC39 family of solute-carriergenes, which show structural characteristics of zinc transporters. The encodedprotein is glycosylated and...
SMPDL3A: Enables phosphoric diester hydrolase activity and zinc i...
SNX14: This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members ofthis family have a phox (PX) phosphoinositide binding domain and are in...
SNX9: This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of thisfamily contain a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellulartrafficking. The encoded pro...
SOCS1: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI familymembers are cytokine-inducible negative r...
SOCS2: This gene encodes a member of the suppressor of cytokine signaling(SOCS) family. SOCS family members are cytokine-inducible negative regulatorsof cytokine receptor signaling via the Janus kinase/signal transducer andactivation of transcription pathway (the JAK/STAT ...
SPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the attachment of osteoclaststo the mineralized bone matrix. The encoded protein is sec...
SPRED2: SPRED2 is a member of the Sprouty (see SPRY1; MIM 602465)/SPRED f...
SPRY4: This gene encodes a member of a family of cysteine- and proline-richproteins. The encoded protein is an inhibitor of the rec...
ST3GAL4: This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 29 family,a group of enzymes involved in protein glycosylation. Th...
SWAP70: Enables cadherin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regulationof...
SYNGR2: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein containing four transmembraneregions and a C-terminal cytoplasmic tail th...
SYT11: This gene is a member of the synaptotagmin gene family and encodesa protein similar to other family members that are known calc...
TGM2: Transglutaminases are enzymes that catalyze the crosslinking of proteinsby epsilon-gamma glutamyl lysine isopeptide bonds. While the primary structureof tran...
TIAM1: This gene encodes a RAC1-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor(GEF). GEFs mediate the exchange of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) for guanosinetriphosphate (GTP). The binding of GTP induces a conformational change inRAC1 that allows downstream effectors to bind and transduce a signal. Thisgene thus regulates RAC...
TLR7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans andshare structural and functional similarities. The human TLR family comprises...
TNFRSF18: This gene encodes a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. Theencoded receptor has been shown to have increased expression upon T-cell activatio...
TNFRSF1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This protein and TNF-receptor 1 form a heterocomplex that mediatesthe recruitment of two anti-...
TNFRSF21: This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptorsuperfamily. The encoded protein activates nuclear factor kappa-B and mitogen-activatedprotein kinase ...
TNFRSF4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This receptor has been shown to activate NF-kappaB through itsi...
TNFRSF8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This receptor is expressed by activated, but not by resting,T and B cells. TRAF2 ...
TNFRSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This receptor contributes to the clonal expansion, survival,and developm...
TNFSF10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein preferentially inducesapoptosis in transformed and tumor cells, but does not appear to kill normalcells although i...
TNFSF11: This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) cytokinefamily which is a ligand for osteoprotegerin and functions as a key factorfor osteoclast differentiation and activation. This protein was shown to bea dentritic cell survival factor and is involved in the ...
TRAF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor (TNFR)associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, andmediate the signal transduction from various receptors of the TNFR superfamily.This protein and TRAF2 f...
TTC39B: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including...
TWSG1: Enables transforming growth factor beta binding activity. Involvedin several processes, including negative regulation...
UCK2: This gene encodes a pyrimidine ribonucleoside kinase. The encode...
UMPS: This gene encodes a uridine 5''-monophosphate synthase. The encodedprotein is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of thede novo pyrimidine biosyn...
WLS: Enables Wnt-protein binding activity and identical protein binding activity.Involved...
XBP1: This gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates MHC class IIgenes by binding to a promoter element referred to as an X box. This geneproduct is a bZIP protein, which was also identified as a cellular transcriptionfactor that binds to an enhancer in the promoter of the T cell leukemia virustype 1 ...
////
ABI1: This gene encodes a member of the Abelson-interactor family of adaptorproteins. These proteins facilitate signal transduction as components of severalmultiprotein complexes, and regulate actin polymerization and cytoskeletalremodeling throug...
ABL1: This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinaseinvolved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion,differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negativelyregul...
ABR: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to the protein encoded bythe breakpoint cluster region gene located on chromosome...
ACTN4: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins.  Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple...
AKAP13: The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverseproteins which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunitof protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locationswithin the cell. This gene encodes a m...
ALMS1: This gene encodes a protein containing a large tandem-repeat domainas well as additional low complexity regions. The encoded prot...
ALS2: The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATS1/RCC1-like domain,a RhoGEF domain, and a vacuolar protein sorting 9 (VPS9) domain, all of whichare guanine-nucleotide exchange fac...
ANLN: This gene encodes an actin-binding protein that plays a role in cellgrowth and migration, and in cytokinesis. ...
APC: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonistof the Wnt signaling pathway. It is also involved in other processes includingcell migration an...
ARAP3: This gene encodes a phosphoinositide binding protein containing ARF-GAP,RHO-GAP, RAS-associating, and pleckstrin homology...
ARF6: This gene encodes a member of the human ARF gene family, which is partof the RAS superfamily. The ARF genes encode small guanine nucleotide-bindingp...
ARFGEF1: ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellularvesicular trafficking. Th...
ARFIP2: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; membrane ...
ARHGAP10: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Predicted to be involvedin cytoske...
ARHGAP27: This gene encodes a member of a large family of proteins that activateRho-type guanosi...
ARHGAP29: Rap1 is a small GTPase that, through effectors, regulates Rho GTPasesignaling. These effectors- Rasip1, Radi...
ARHGAP4: This gene encodes a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins whichplay a role in the regulation of small GTP-binding proteins belonging to theRAS superfa...
ARHGAP5: Rho GTPase activating protein 5 negatively regulates RHO GTPases,a fam...
ARHGDIA: This gene encodes a protein that plays a key role in the regulationof signaling through Rho GTPases. The encoded protein inhibits the disassociatio...
ARHGEF11: Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processesthat are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupledreceptors. The enco...
ARHGEF12: Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processesthat are initiated by extracellular stimuli working th...
ARHGEF2: Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processesthat are initiated by extrace...
ARHGEF3: Rho-like GTPases are involved in a variety of cellular processes,and they are activated by binding GTP and inactivated by conversion of GTPto GDP by their intrinsic GTPase activity. Guanine nucleotide exchange facto...
ARHGEF7: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of cytoplasmicproteins that activate the Ras-like family ...
ARL8A: Enables GTP binding activity. Predicted to be in...
ATG4B: Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organellesare destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential forcell homeostasis and cell remodeling ...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at thespindle pol...
BCAR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Crk-associatedsubstrate (CAS) family of scaffold proteins, characterized by the presenceof multiple protein-protein interaction domains and many serine and tyrosinephosphorylation s...
BCL2L11: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family.BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptoticregulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Theprot...
BCR: A reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 22 and 9 produces thePhiladelphia chromosome, which is often found in patients with chronic myelogenousleukemia. The chromosome 22 breakpoint for this translocation is loc...
BIN1: This gene encodes several isoforms of a nucleocytoplasmic adaptor protein,one of which was initially identified as a MYC-interacting protein with featuresof a tumor suppressor. Isoforms that are expressed in the ce...
BIRC5: This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family,which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death.IAP ...
BRCA2: Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increasedlifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the h...
BUB1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a centralrole in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylatingmem...
CAPZB: This gene encodes the beta subunit of the barbed-end actin bindingprotein, which belongs to the F-actin capping protein family. The cappingprotein is a hetero...
CCDC88A: This gene encodes a member of the Girdin family of coiled-coil domaincontaining proteins. The encoded protein is an actin-binding protein thatis activated by the serine/threonine kin...
CCNB2: Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-typecyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essenti...
CD2AP: This gene encodes a scaffolding molecule that regulates the actin cytoskeleton.The protein directly interacts with filamentous actin and a variety of cellmembrane p...
CDC27: The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomycescerevisiae protein Cdc27, and the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombenuc 2. This protein is a component of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC),which is composed of eight ...
CDC42: The protein encoded by this gene is a small GTPase of the Rho-subfamily,which regulates signaling pathways that control diverse cellular functionsincluding cell morphology, migration, endocytosis and cell cycle ...
CDC42BPA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonineprotein kinase family. This kinase contains multiple functional domains. Itskinase...
CDC42EP1: CDC42 is a member of the Rho GTPase family that regulates multiplecellular activities, in...
CDC42EP2: CDC42, a small Rho GTPase, regulates the formation of F-actin-containingstructures through its interaction with the downstream effector p...
CDC42EP4: The product of this gene is a member of the CDC42-binding proteinfamily. Members of this family interact with Rho family GTPa...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conservedprotein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting ...
CDK5RAP2: This gene encodes a regulator of CDK5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5)activity. The protein encoded by this gene is ...
CENPE: Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor proteinthat accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associatedproteins, ...
CENPF: This gene encodes a protein that associates with the centromere-kinetochorecomplex. The protein is a component of the nuclear matrix during the G2 phaseof interphase. In late G2 the protein ...
CENPJ: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the centromere proteinfamily. During cell division, this protein plays a structural role in themaintenance of centrosome integrity and normal spindle morpho...
CEP131: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,including intraciliary transport invo...
CEP192: Enables phosphatase binding activity. Involved in centrosome-templat...
CEP250: This gene encodes a core centrosomal protein required for centriole-centriolecohesion during interphase of the cell cycle. Th...
CEP57: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein called Translokin. This proteinlocalizes to the centrosome and has a function in microtubular stabilization.The N-terminal half of this protein is required for its centrosome localizationand for its multimerization, and the C-te...
CEP72: The product of this gene is a member of the leucine-rich-repeat (LRR)s...
CKAP5: This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein which belongs tothe TOG/XMAP215 family. The N-terminal half of this protein contains a microtubule-bindingdomain and the C-terminal half contains a KXGS motif for bind...
CLASP1: CLASPs, such as CLASP1, are nonmotor microtubule-associated proteinsthat inte...
CLIP1: The protein encoded by this gene links endocytic vesicles to microtub...
CLIP2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of cytoplasmiclinker proteins, which have been proposed to mediate the interaction betwe...
CNTRL: This gene encodes a centrosomal protein required for the centrosometo function as a microtubule organizing center...
CNTROB: This gene encodes a centrosomal protein that interacts with BRCA2,a...
CSNK1D: This gene is a member of the casein kinase I (CKI) gene family whosemembers have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear proce...
CTTN: This gene is overexpressed in breast cancer and squamous cell carcinomasof the head and neck. The encoded protein is localized in the cytoplasm andin areas of the cell-substrat...
CYTH2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PSCD family. Membersof this family have identical structural organization that consists of anN-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-term...
DLG1: This gene encodes a multi-domain scaffolding protein that is requiredfor normal development. This protein may have a role in septate junction for...
DLGAP5: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several ...
DOCK2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDM protein family.It is specifically expressed in hematopoietic cells and is predominantly expressedin peripheral blood leukocytes. The ...
DOCK4: This gene is a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) familyand encodes a protein with a DHR-1 (CZH-1) domain, a DHR-2 (CZH-2) domainand an SH3 d...
DST: This gene encodes a member of the plakin protein family of adhesion junctionplaque proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encodingdistinct isoforms have ...
DYNC1H1: Dyneins are a group of microtubule-activated ATPases that functionas molecular motors. They are divided into two subgroups of axonemal and cytopl...
DYNLL2: Predicted to enable dynein intermediate chain binding activity anddynein light in...
ECT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factorand transforming protein that is related to Rho-specific exchange factorsand yeast cell cycle regulators. The ...
EPB41: The protein encoded by this gene, together with spectrin and actin,constitute the red cell membrane cyto...
EPB41L2: Predicted to enable PH domain binding activity; cytoskeletal proteinbinding activity; an...
ESPL1: Stable cohesion between sister chromatids before anaphase and theirtimely separation during anaphase are critical for chromosome inheritance.In ver...
EZR: The cytoplasmic peripheral membrane protein encoded by this gene functionsas a protein-tyrosine kinase substrate in microvilli. As a member of the ERM...
FARP1: This gene encodes a protein containing a FERM (4.2, exrin, radixin,moesin) domain, a Dbl homology domain, and t...
FBXO5: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called...
FGD4: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of theactin cytoskeleton and cell shape. This protein contains an actin filament-bindingdomain, which together with its Dbl homology domain and one of its pleckstrinhomolo...
FGD6: Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and smallGTPase binding activity. Predic...
FLNA: The protein encoded by this gene is an actin-binding protein that crosslinksactin filaments and links actin filaments to membrane glycoproteins. The encodedprotein is involved in remodeling the cyto...
FLNB: This gene encodes a member of the filamin family. The encoded proteininteracts with glycoprotein Ib alpha as part of the process to repair vascularinjuries. The...
FSCN1: This gene encodes a member of the fascin family of actin-binding proteins.Fascin proteins organize F-actin into parallel bundles, and are required forthe formation of actin-based ...
GEMIN4: The product of this gene is part of a large complex localized to thecytoplasm, nucleoli, and to discrete nuclear bodies called Gemini bodies (...
GSN: The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomersand filaments to prevent monomer e...
HDAC6: Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycleprogression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylati...
HOOK3: Hook proteins are cytosolic coiled-coil proteins that contain conservedN-term...
INCENP: In mammalian cells, 2 broad groups of centromere-interacting proteinshave been described: constitutively binding centromere proteins and ''passenger,''or transiently interacting, proteins (reviewed by Choo, 1997). The constitutiveproteins include CENPA (centromere protein A; MIM 117139), CENPB (MIM 117140),CENPC1 (MIM ...
ITSN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic membrane-associatedprotein that indirectly coordinates endocytic membrane traffic with the actinassembly machi...
KATNA1: Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form themitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize membranous organellesduring interphase...
KATNB1: Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form themitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize memb...
KIF11: This gene encodes a motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-likeprotein family. Members o...
KIF15: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity and mi...
KIF1B: This gene encodes a motor protein that transports ...
KIF20B: Enables several functions, including WW domain binding activity; plus-end-directedmicrotubule motor activi...
KIF22: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like proteinfamily. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular mot...
KIF23: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of kinesin-like proteinfamily. This family includes microtubule-dep...
KIF2C: This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependen...
KIF3B: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a heterodimer with kinesinfamily member 3A to aid in chromosome movement during mitosis a...
KIF3C: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity and microtubule motoractivity. Predicted to be involved in microtubule...
KIF4A: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin relatedproteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based ...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activ...
KIFAP3: The small G protein GDP dissociation stimulator (smg GDS) is a regulatorprotein having two activities on a group of small G proteins including theRho and Rap1 family members and Ki-Ras; one is to stimulate their GDP/GTPexchange reactions, and the other i...
KLC1: Conventional kinesin is a tetrameric molecule composed of two heavychains and two light chains, and transports various cargos along microtubulestoward their plus ends. The heavy chains provide the motor activity, whilethe light chains bind to various cargos. This g...
KNTC1: This gene encodes a protein that is one of many involved in mechanismsto ens...
KPTN: This gene encodes a filamentous-actin-associated protein, which is involvedin actin dynamics and plays an im...
LATS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative serine/threonine kinasethat localizes to the mitotic apparatus and complexes with cell cycle controllerCDC2 kinase in early mitosis. The protein is phosphorylated in a cell-cycledependent manner,...
LLGL1: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to a tumor suppressor inDrosophila. The protein is ...
LMNB1: This gene encodes one of the two B-type lamin proteins and is a componento...
LRPPRC: This gene encodes a leucine-rich protein that has multiple pentatricopeptiderepeats (PPR). The precise role of this protein is unknown but s...
MAP1S: Enables DNA binding activity and cytoskeletal protein binding activity.Involved in microtubule ...
MAP3K11: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threoninekinase family. This kinase contains a SH3 domain and a leucin...
MAPRE1: The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its bindingto the APC protein which is often mutated in familial and sporadic forms ofcolorectal cancer. This protein ...
MARCKS: The protein encoded by this gene is a substrate for protein kinaseC. It is localized to the plasma membrane and is an acti...
MARK4: This gene encodes a member of the microtubule affinity-regulating kinasefamily. These protein kinases phosphorylate microtubule-associated proteinsand regulate the transition ...
MID1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family, also known as the ''RING-B box-coiled coil'' (RBCC) subgroupof RING finger proteins. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains,a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and ...
MID1IP1: Predicted to enable identical protein binding activity and proteinC-terminus binding activity. Predicted to be invo...
MYH10: This gene encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. The protein representsa conventional non-muscle myosin; it should not be confused with th...
MYH9: This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein shouldnot be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9B).The encoded protein is a myosin...
MYO1E: This gene encodes a member of the nonmuscle class I myosins which area subgroup of the unconventional myosin protein family. The unconventionalmyosin proteins function as actin-based molecular motors. Class I...
MYO9B: This gene encodes a member of the myosin family of actin-based molecularmotor heavy chain proteins. The protein represents an unconventional myosin;it should not be confused with the conv...
NCK1: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the signaling and transformingproteins containing Src homology 2 a...
NCK2: This gene encodes a member of the NCK family of adaptor proteins. Theprotein contains three SH3 domains and one SH2 domain. The protein has...
NDC80: This gene encodes a component of the NDC80 kinetochore complex. Theencoded protein consists of an N-te...
NEDD9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CRK-associatedsubstrates family. Members of this family are adhesion docking molecules thatmedi...
NEK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involvedin mitotic regulation. This protein is lo...
NET1: This gene is part of the family of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors.Members of this family activate Rho proteins by catalyzing th...
NF1: This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of theras signal transduction pathway. Mutations in this gene ha...
NIN: This gene encodes one of the proteins important for centrosomal function.This protein is important for positio...
NOTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics includingan extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like(EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, differentdomain types. Notch family membe...
NUMA1: This gene encodes a large protein that forms a structural componentof the nuclear matrix. The encoded protein interacts with micro...
NUSAP1: NUSAP1 is a nucleolar-spindle-associated prot...
OPHN1: This gene encodes a Rho-GTPase-activating protein that promotes GTPhydrolysis of Rho subfamily members. Rho...
PAFAH1B1: This locus was identified as encoding a gene that when mutated orlost caused the lissencephaly associated with Miller-Dieker lissencephalysyndrome. This gene encodes the non-catalytic alpha ...
PALLD: This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein that is required for organizingthe actin cytoskeleton. The protein is a componen...
PCGF5: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Acts upstream of orwit...
PCM1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of centriolar satellites,which are electron dense granules scattered around centrosomes. Inhibitionstudies show th...
PCNT: The protein encoded by this gene binds to calmodulin and is expressedin the centrosome. It is an integral component of the pericentriolar material(PCM). The protein contains a series...
PDLIM5: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that possess a100-amino acid PDZ domain at the N terminus and one to three LI...
PIF1: This gene encodes a DNA-dependent adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-metabolizingenzyme that functions as a 5'' to 3'' DNA helicase. The en...
PKD2: This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family. The encodedprotein is a multi-pass membrane protein that functions as a ...
PLEKHG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a RhoGTPase that can activateCDC42 by promoting exchange of GDP f...
PLK1: The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polosubfamily. It is highl...
PPP4R2: The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the serine/threonine-proteinphosphatase 4 comple...
PRC1: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in cytokinesis. The proteinis present at high levels during the S and G2/M phases of mitosis but itslevels drop dramatically when the cell ex...
PREX1: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a guanine nucleotide exchangefactor for the RHO family of small GTP-b...
PXN: This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein involved in actin-membrane attachmentat sites of cell adhesion to th...
RAB3GAP1: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of a Rab GTPase activatingprotein. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with a ...
RABGAP1: Enables GTPase activator activity and small GTPa...
RACGAP1: This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a compomentof the centralspindlin complex. This protein binds activ...
RALBP1: RALBP1 plays a role in receptor-mediated endocytosis and is a downstreameffector of the small GTP-binding protein R...
RANBP9: This gene encodes a protein that binds RAN, a small GTP binding proteinbelonging to the RAS superfamily that is ess...
RAPGEF5: Members of the RAS (see HRAS; MIM 190020) subfamily of GTPases functionin signal transduction as GTP/GDP-regulated switches t...
RAPGEF6: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor acti...
RASA1: The protein encoded by this gene is located in the cytoplasm and ispart of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activating proteins. The gene product stimulatesthe GTPase activity of normal RAS p21 but not its oncogenic counterpart. Actingas a suppressor of RAS f...
RASA2: The protein encoded by this gene is member of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activatingproteins. The gene product stimulates the GTPase acti...
RASAL2: This gene encodes a protein that contains the GAP-related domain (GRD),a characteristic domain of GTPase-activatin...
RFC1: This gene encodes the large subunit of replication factor C, a fivesubunit DNA polymerase accessory protein, which is a DNA-dependent ...
RHOF: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity;...
RHOT2: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of GTPases. The...
RICTOR: RICTOR and MTOR (FRAP1; MIM 601231) are components of a pro...
ROCK1: This gene encodes a protein serine/threonine kinase that is activatedwhen bound to the GTP-bound form of Rho. The small GTPase Rho regulates formationof focal adhesions and stress fibers of...
SAC3D1: Predicted to be involved in centrosome duplication and spindle assembly.Predicted to act upstream...
SASS6: The protein encoded by this gene is a central component of centriolesand is necessary for the...
SEPTIN9: This gene is a member of the septin family involved in cytokinesisand cell cycle control. This gene is a candidate for the ovarian tumor sup...
SHROOM1: SHROOM family members play diverse roles in ...
SHROOM2: This gene represents the human homolog of Xenopus laevis apical protein(APX) gene, which is implicated in amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity....
SMC1A: Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correctsegregation of chromosomes during cell division. The cohesin multiproteincomplex is required for sister chromatid cohesion. This complex is composedpartly of two structural maintenance of chr...
SMC3: This gene belongs to the SMC3 subfamily of SMC proteins. The encodedprotein occurs in certain cell types as either an intracellular, nuclear proteinor a sec...
SMC4: This gene belongs to the ''structural maintenance of chromosomes'' (SMC)gene family. Members of this gene family play a role in...
SORBS2: Arg and c-Abl represent the mammalian members of the Abelson familyof non-receptor protein-tyrosine kinases. They interact with the Arg/Abl bindingproteins via the SH3 domains present in the carboxy end of the la...
SOS1: This gene encodes a protein that is a guanine nucleotide exchange factorfor RAS proteins, membrane proteins that bind guani...
SPTAN1: Spectrins are a family of filamentous cytoskeletal proteins that functionas essential scaffold proteins that stabilize the plasma membrane and organizeintracellular organelles....
SPTBN1: Spectrin is an actin crosslinking and molecular scaffold protein thatlinks the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton, and functions in thedetermination of ce...
SSH2: This gene encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase that plays a key rolein the reg...
STAU1: Staufen is a member of the family of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-bindingproteins involved in the transport and/or localization of mRNAs to differentsubcellular compartments and/or organelles. These proteins ...
STK38L: Enables ATP binding activity; magnesium ion binding activity; andprotein...
SUN2: SUN1 (MIM 607723) and SUN2 are inner nuclear membrane (INM) proteinsthat play a major role in nuclear-cytoplasmic connection by formation of a''bridge''...
SYNPO: Synaptopodin is an actin-associated protein that may play a role inactin-based ...
TAOK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involvedin many diffe...
TBCD: Cofactor D is one of four proteins (cofactors A, D, E, and C) involvedin the pathway leading to correctly folded beta-tubulin fro...
TIAM1: This gene encodes a RAC1-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor(GEF). GEFs mediate the exchange of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) for guanosinetriphosphate (GTP). The binding of GTP induces a conformational change inRAC1 that allows downstream effectors to bind and transduce a signal. Thisgene thus regulates RAC...
TLK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that maybe involved in the regulation of chromatin assembly. The encoded ...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls andalters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzymeis involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation,and the relief of torsional st...
TPX2: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved ...
TRIO: This gene encodes a large protein that functions as a GDP to GTP exchangefac...
TSC1: This gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes the growth inhibitoryprotein hamartin. The encoded protein interacts with and stabilizes the GTPaseactivating protein tuberin. This hamartin-tub...
TTK: This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase with the abilityto phosphorylate tyrosine, serine and threonine. Associated with cell proliferation,this prot...
TUBA4A: Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential anddiverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulin.The genes encoding these microtubule constituents are part of the tubulinsuperfam...
TUBD1: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity. Predicted to be a structuralconstituent of c...
TUBGCP2: Predicted to enable gamma-tubulin binding activity. Predicted tocon...
TUBGCP3: Enables gamma-tubulin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedi...
TUBGCP5: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in m...
TUBGCP6: The protein encoded by this gene is part ...
UXT: The protein encoded by this gene functions as a cofactor that modulatesandrogen receptor-dependent...
VCL: Vinculin is a cytoskeletal protein associated with cell-cell and cell-matrixjunctions, where it is thought to function as one of several interacting proteinsi...
WASF1: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndromeprotein (WASP)-family, plays a critical role downstream of Rac, a Rho-familysmall GTP...
WASF2: This gene encodes a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome proteinfamily. The gene product is a protein that forms a multiprotein complex thatlinks receptor kinases and actin. Binding t...
WASL: This gene encodes a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) proteinfamily. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome proteins share similar domain structure,and associa...
YWHAE: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediatesignal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. Thishighly conserved protein family is ...
////
ABCA1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracell...
ABCB8: This nuclear gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is targeted to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded p...
ACAA2: The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of the mitochondr...
ACADL: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, which is a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes...
ACADM: This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain) acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase. The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the in...
ACADS: This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase fam...
ACLY: ATP citrate lyase is the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesis of cytosolic acetyl-CoA in many tissues. The enzyme is a tetramer (relative molecular weight approximately 440...
ACO2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase family. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion ...
ACOX1: The protein encoded by this gene is the first enzyme of the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway, which catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-...
ADCY6: This gene encodes a member of the adenylyl cyclase family of proteins, which are required for the synthesis of cyclic AMP. All members of this family have an intracellular N-terminus, a tandem repeat of six trans...
ADIG: ADIG/SMAF1 is an adipocyte-specific protein that p...
ADIPOQ: This gene is expressed in adipose tissue exclusively. It encodes a protein with similarity to collagens X and VI...
ADIPOR2: The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serve as receptors for globular and...
AGPAT3: The protein encoded by this gene is an acyltransferase that converts lysophosphatidic acid in...
AIFM1: This gene encodes a flavoprotein essential for nuclear disassembly in apoptotic cells, and it is found in the mitochondrial intermembrane space in healthy cells. Induction of apoptosis results in the translocation of this protein to the nuc...
AK2: Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. T...
ALDH2: This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. Two major liver isoforms of aldehyde dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial, can be distinguished by their elect...
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase protein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6...
ANGPT1: This gene encodes a secreted glycoprotein that belongs to the angiopoietin family. Members of this family play important roles in vascular development and angiogenesis. All angiopoietins bind with similar aff...
ANGPTL4: This gene encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein containing a C-terminal fibrinogen domain. The encoded protein is induced by peroxisome proliferation activators and functions as a serum hormone that reg...
APLP2: This gene encodes amyloid precursor- like protein 2 (APLP2), which is a member of the APP (amyloid precursor protein) family including APP, APLP1 and APLP2. This protein is ubiquitously expressed. It contains hepari...
APOE: The protein encoded by this gene is a major apoprotein of the chylomicron. It binds to a specific liver and peripheral cell receptor, and is essential for...
ARAF: This proto-oncogene belongs to the RAF subfamily of the Ser/Thr protei...
ARL4A: ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4A ...
ATL2: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in Golgi organization; endopl...
ATP1B3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gra...
ATP5PO: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the F-type ATPase found in the mitochondrial matr...
BAZ2A: Enables histone binding activity. Contributes to RNA polymerase I core promoter sequence-specific DNA binding a...
BCKDHA: The branched-chain alpha-keto acid (BCAA) dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex is an innter mitochondrial enzyme complex that catalyzes the second major step in the catabolism of the branched-cha...
BCL2L13: This gene encodes a mitochondrially-localized protein with conserved B...
BCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription...
C3: Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complement system. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complement activation p...
CAT: This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catala...
CAVIN1: This gene encodes a protein that enables the dissociation of paused ternary polymerase I transcription complexes from the 3' end of pre-rRNA transcripts. This protein regulates rRNA transcription by promoting the dissociation of transcripti...
CAVIN2: This gene encodes a calcium-independent phospholipid-binding protein whose expression increases in serum-starv...
CCNG2: The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The 8 species of cycl...
CD151: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophob...
CD302: CD302 is a C-type lectin receptor involved in c...
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein of the platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in platelets and various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely dist...
CDKN2C: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interact with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of ...
CHCHD10: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is enriched at cristae junctions in the intermembrane space. It may play...
CHUK: This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein, a compone...
CIDEA: This gene encodes the homolog of the mouse protein Cidea that has been shown to activate apoptosis. This activation of apoptosis is inhibited by the DNA fragment...
CMBL: CMBL (EC 3.1.1.45) is a cysteine hydrolase of the dienelactone hydrolase family that is ...
CMPK1: This gene encodes one of the enzymes required for cellular nucleic acid biosynthesis. ...
COL15A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XV collagen, a member of the FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted helices). Type XV collagen has ...
COL4A1: This gene encodes a type IV collagen alpha protein. Type IV collagen proteins are integral components of basement membranes. This gene shares a bidirectional promoter with a paralogous gene on the opposite strand. The protein consists...
COQ3: Ubiquinone, also known as coenzyme Q, or Q, is a critical component of the electron transport pathways of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes (Jonassen and Clarke, 2000 [PubMed 10777520]). This lipid consists of a hydrophobic isoprenoid tail and a qu...
COQ5: Enables 2-octaprenyl-6-methoxy-1,4-benzoquinone methylase activity. Involved in methylatio...
COQ9: This locus represents a mitochondrial ubiquinone biosynthesis gene. The enco...
COX6A1: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multipl...
COX7B: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heter...
COX8A: The protein encoded by this gene is the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain, coupling the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen, with the concomitant ...
CPT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial ...
CRAT: This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitine acyltransferase family and a key metabolic pathway enzyme which plays an i...
CS: The protein encoded by this gene is a Krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme that catalyzes the s...
CYC1: This gene encodes a subunit of the cytochrome bc1 complex, which plays an important ...
CYP4B1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many ...
DBT: The branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an inner-mitochondrial enzyme complex involved in the breakdown of the branched-chain amino acids ...
DDT: D-dopachrome tautomerase converts D-dopachrome into 5,6-dihydroxyindole....
DECR1: This gene encodes an accessory enzyme whic...
DGAT1: This gene encodes an multipass transmembrane protein that functions as a key metabolic enzyme. ...
DHCR7: This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembrane prote...
DHRS7: This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) ...
DHRS7B: This gene is located within the Smith-M...
DLAT: This gene encodes component E2 of the multi-enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). PDC resides in the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The protein product of this gene, dihydrolipoamide ace...
DLD: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ab...
DNAJB9: This gene is a member of the J protein family. J proteins function in many cellular processes by regulating the A...
DNAJC15: Predicted to enable ATPase activator activity. Predicted to be involved in protein import into mitochondrial matrix. Predicted to act upstre...
DRAM2: The protein encoded by this gene binds microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 ...
ECH1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The gene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratases of several species, particularly within a conser...
ECHS1: The protein encoded by this gene functions in the second step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. It ca...
ELMOD3: This gene encodes a member of the engulfment and cell motility family of GTPase-activating proteins that regulate Arf GTPase proteins. Members of this family ar...
ELOVL6: Fatty acid elongases (EC 6.2.1.3), such as ELOVL6, use m...
ENPP2: The protein encoded by this gene functions as both a phosphodiesterase, which cleaves phosphodiester bonds at the 5' end of oligonucleotides, and a phospholipase, which catalyzes productio...
EPHX2: This gene encodes a member of the epoxide hydrolase family. The protein, found in both the cytos...
ESRRA: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor that is most closely related to the estrogen receptor. This protein ...
ESYT1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in en...
ETFB: This gene encodes electron-transfer-flavoprotein, beta polypeptide, which shuttles electrons between primary flavoprote...
FABP4: FABP4 encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in adipocytes.  Fatty acid binding pr...
FAH: This gene encodes the last enzyme in the tyr...
FZD4: This gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MM...
G3BP2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulat...
GADD45A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment wit...
GBE1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen branching enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of alpha-1,4-linked glucosyl units from the outer end of a gly...
GHITM: Involved in inner mitochondrial membrane organization and negative ...
GPAM: This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme which prefers saturated fatty acids as its substrate for the synt...
GPAT4: Lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferases (EC 2.3.1.51) catalyze...
GPD2: The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of ...
GPHN: This gene encodes a neuronal assembly protein that anchors inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors to the postsynaptic cytoskeleton via high affinity binding to a receptor ...
GPX3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxides and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates, ...
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organic hydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates, which vary in cellular location and substrate specificity. This isozyme h...
GRPEL1: Enables identical protein binding activity and unfolded protein bi...
HADH: This gene is a member of the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene family. The encoded protein functions in the mitochondrial matr...
HIBCH: This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of both HIBYL-CoA an...
HSPB8: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of small heat-shock proteins containing a conservative alpha-crystallin domain at the C-terminal part of the m...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenas...
IDH3A: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five is...
IDH3G: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)...
IFNGR1: This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma rec...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cris...
ITGA7: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. They mediate a wide s...
ITIH5: This gene encodes a heavy chain component of one of the inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor (ITI) family members. ITI proteins are involved in extra...
ITSN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic membrane-associated protein that indirectly coordinates endocytic membrane traffic with the actin assembly machi...
JAGN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein. It func...
LAMA4: Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins are composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively) and they form a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different ch...
LEP: This gene encodes a protein that is secreted by white adipocytes into the circulation and plays a major role in the regulation of energy homeostasis. Circulating leptin binds to the leptin receptor...
LIFR: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. This protein combines with a high-affinity converter subunit, gp130, to form a receptor complex that mediates the action of the leukemia i...
LIPE: The protein encoded by this gene has a long and a short form, generated by use of alternative translational start...
LPCAT3: Enables 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferase activity; 1-acylglycerophosphoethanolamine O-acyltransfera...
LPL: LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed in heart, muscle, and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodime...
LTC4S: The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family includes a number of human proteins, several of which are involv...
MAP4K3: This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinas...
MCCC1: This gene encodes the large subunit of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. This enzyme function...
MDH2: Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate, utilizing the NAD/NADH cofactor system ...
ME1: This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPH for fatty acid biosynthesis. The activity...
MGLL: This gene encodes a serine hydrolase of the AB hydrolase superfamily that catalyzes the conversion of monoacylglycerides to free fatty acids a...
MGST3: This gene encodes a member of the MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) protein family. Members...
MIGA2: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein...
MRAP: This gene encodes a melanocortin receptor-interacting protein. The encoded protein regulates trafficking and funct...
MRPL15: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subu...
MTARC2: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme found in the outer mitochondrial membrane that reduces N-hydroxylated substrates. The encoded protein uses molybd...
MTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the SLC25 family of nuclear-encoded transporters that are localized in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Members of this superfamily are involved in many metabolic pathways and cell functions. ...
MYLK: This gene, a muscle member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, encodes myosin light chain kinase which is a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme. This kinase phosphorylates myosin regulatory light chains to facilitate myosin interaction with actin filame...
NABP1: Single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding proteins, such as OBFC2A, are ubiqui...
NDUFA5: This nuclear gene encodes a conserved protein that comprises the B13 subunit of complex I of the mitochondrial respirato...
NDUFAB1: Predicted to enable acyl binding activity; acyl carrier activity; and fatty acid binding activity. In...
NDUFB7: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mammalian ...
NDUFS3: This gene encodes one of the iron-sulfur protein (IP) components of m...
NKIRAS1: Predicted to enable GTPase activating protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in I-kappaB...
NMT1: Myristate, a rare 14-carbon saturated fatty acid, is cotranslationally attached by an amide linkage to the N-terminal glycine residue of cellular and viral protein...
OMD: Predicted to be involved in cell adhesion a...
ORM1: This gene encodes a key acute phase plasma protein.  Because of its increase due to...
PDCD4: This gene is a tumor suppressor and encodes a protein that binds to ...
PEMT: Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the most abundant mammalian phospholipid. This gene encodes an enzyme which converts phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidyl...
PEX14: This gene encodes an essential component of the peroxisomal import machinery. The protein is integrated into peroxisome memb...
PFKFB3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of bifunctional proteins that are involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory molecule that controls glycolys...
PFKL: This gene encodes the liver (L) subunit of an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of D-fructose 6-phospha...
PGM1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of phosphoglucomutase (PGM) and belongs to the phosphohexose mutase family. There are several PGM isozymes, which are enc...
PHLDB1: Involved in regulation of embryonic development; regulation o...
PHYH: This gene is a member of the PhyH family and encodes a peroxisomal protein that is involved in the alpha-oxidation of 3-methyl branched fatty...
PIM3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and PIM subfamily. This gene...
PLIN2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the perilipin family, members of which coat intracellular lipid storage droplets. This protein is associated with the lipid globule surface membrane material, an...
POR: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane oxidoreductase that is essential for multiple metabolic processes, including reactions catalyzed by cytochrome P450 proteins for metabolism of steroid hormones, drugs an...
PPARG: This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subfamily of nuclear receptors. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and...
PPM1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stres...
PPP1R15B: This gene encodes a protein phosphatase I-interacting protein that promotes the dephosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A to regulate translation under conditions of cellular stress. The transcribed messenger RNA contains two upstrea...
PRDX3: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein with antioxidant function. The protein is similar to the C22 subunit of Salmonella typhimurium alkylhydroperoxide reductase, and it can rescue bacterial resistance to alkylhydroperoxide in E. ...
PREB: This gene encodes a protein that specifically binds to a Pit1-binding element of the prolactin (PRL) prom...
PTCD3: Enables rRNA binding activity and ribosomal small subunit binding activity. Involved...
PTGER3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)...
QDPR: This gene encodes the enzyme dihydropteridine reductase, which catalyzes the NADH-mediated reduction of quinonoid dihydrobiopterin.  This enzyme is an...
RAB34: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the RAB family of proteins, which are small GTPases involved in protein transport. This family member is a Golgi...
REEP5: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum orga...
REEP6: The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the transport of receptors from the endoplasmic retic...
RETN: This gene belongs to the family defined by the mouse resistin-like genes. The characteristic feature of this family is the C-terminal stretch of 10 cys resi...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reduct...
RIOK3: This gene was first identified by the similarity of its product to the Aspergillus nidulans SUDD protein. This gene...
RMDN3: Enables microtubule binding activity. Involved in cellular calciu...
RNF11: The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING-H2 finger motif, which is known to be important fo...
RREB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to RAS-responsive elements (RREs) of gene ...
RTN3: This gene belongs to the reticulon family of highly conserved genes that are preferentially expressed in neuroendocrine tissues. This family of proteins interact with, and ...
SAMM50: This gene encodes a component of the Sorting and Assembly Machin...
SCARB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane receptor for high density lipoprot...
SCP2: This gene encodes two proteins: sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) and sterol carrier protein 2 (SCP2), as a result of transcription initiation from 2 independently regulated promoters. The transcript initiated from the proximal promoter encodes the long...
SDHB: This tumor suppressor gene encodes the iron-sulfur protein subunit of the succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) enzyme complex which plays a critical role in mitochondria. The SDH enzyme complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits. This enzyme complex converts succin...
SDHC: This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprise succinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, a key enzyme complex of the tricar...
SLC19A1: The membrane protein encoded by this gene is a transporter of folate...
SLC1A5: The SLC1A5 gene encodes a sodium-dependent neutral ...
SLC25A1: This gene encodes a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier proteins. Members of this family include nuclear-encoded transporters ...
SLC25A10: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that translocate small metabolites across the mitochondrial membrane. The en...
SLC27A1: Enables biotin transmembrane transporter activity; efflux transmembrane transporter activity; and long-chain...
SLC5A6: Enables biotin transmembrane transporter activity and pantothenate tr...
SLC66A3: Predicted to be integral c...
SNCG: This gene encodes a member of the synuclein family of proteins whic...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, ...
SORBS1: This gene encodes a CBL-associated protein which functions in the signali...
SOWAHC: INTERACTS WITH (-)-epigallo...
SPARCL1: Predicted to enable calcium ion binding activity; collagen binding activity; an...
SQOR: The protein encoded by this gene may function in mitochondria to catalyze t...
SSPN: This gene encodes a member of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). The DGC spans the sarcolemma and is comprised...
STAT5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimer...
STOM: This gene encodes a member of a highly conserved family of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein localizes to the cell ...
SUCLG1: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric enzyme succinate coenzyme A ligase. This en...
SULT1A1: Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cyto...
TALDO1: Transaldolase 1 is a key enzyme of the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway providing ribose-5-phosphate for nucleic acid synthesis and NADPH for lipid biosynthesis. Thi...
TANK: The TRAF (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor) family of proteins associate with and transduce signals from members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily....
TKT: This gene encodes a thiamine-dependent enzyme which plays a role in the chan...
TOB1: This gene encodes a member of the transducer of erbB-2 /B-cell translocation gene protein ...
TST: This is one of two neighboring genes encoding similar proteins that each contain two rhodanese domains. The encoded...
UBC: This gene represents a ubiquitin gene, ubiquitin C. The encoded protein is a polyubiquitin precursor. Conjugation of ubi...
UBQLN1: This gene encodes an ubiquitin-like protein (ubiquilin) that shares a high degree of similarity with related products in yeast, rat and frog. Ubiquilins contain an N-terminal ubiquitin-lik...
UCK1: This gene encodes a uridine-cytidine kinase that catalyzes the phosphorylation of uridine and cytidine to uridine monophosp...
UCP2: Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitocho...
UQCR10: UCRC is a subunit of mitochondrial complex III (ubiquinol-cytochrom...
UQCR11: This gene encodes the smallest known component of the ubiquinol-cytochrom...
UQCRC1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in oxidative pho...
UQCRQ: This gene encodes a ubiquinone-binding protein of low molecular mass....
VEGFB: This gene encodes a member of the PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor)/VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) family. The VEGF family members regulate the formation ...
YWHAG: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserve...
////
AARS1: The human alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS) belongs to a family of tRNAsynthases, of the class II enzymes.  Class II tRNA synthases evolved earl...
ABCE1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily ofATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various moleculesa...
ABI1: This gene encodes a member of the Abelson-interactor family of adaptorproteins. These proteins facilitate signal transduction as components of severalmultiprotein complexes, and regulate actin ...
ACHE: Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholineat neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminatessignal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, whereit constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylchol...
ACVR2A: This gene encodes a receptor that mediates the functions of activins,which are members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamilyinvolved in diverse biological pro...
AKT1: This gene encodes one of the three members of the human AKT serine-threonineprotein kinase family which are often referred to as protein kinase B alpha,beta, and gamma. These highly similar AKT proteins all have an N-terminalpleckstrin homology domain, a serine/threonine-specific kinase domain anda C-terminal regulatory domain. These proteins are phosphorylated by phosphoinositide3-kinase (PI3K). AKT/PI3K forms a key component of many signalling pathwaysth...
APBB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Fe65 protein family.It is an adaptor protein localized in the nucleus. It interacts with the Alzheimer''sdise...
B2M: This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the majorhistocompatibility complex (MHC)...
BCAT1: This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain aminoacid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible t...
BCL10: This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associatedlymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The protein encoded by this gene containsa caspase recruitment domain...
BCL3: This gene is a proto-oncogene candidate. It is identified by its translocationinto the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some c...
BRCA1: This gene encodes a 190 kD nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a rolein maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor.The BRCA1 gene contains 22 exons spanning about 110 kb of DNA. The encodedprotein combines with other tumor suppressors...
C2: Component C2 is a serum glycoprotein that functions as part of the classicalpathway of the complement system. Activated C1 cleaves C2 into C2a and C2b.The serine...
CAPG: This gene encodes a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin-regulatoryproteins. The encoded protei...
CARTPT: This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate multiple biologicall...
CCL11: This antimicrobial gene is one of several chemokine genes clusteredon the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted pr...
CCL13: This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genesclustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family...
CCL19: This antimicrobial gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clusteredon the p-arm of chromosome 9. Cytokines are a family...
CCL2: This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. ...
CCL22: This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genesclustered on the q arm of chromosome 16. Cytokines are a family of secretedproteins involved in immunoregul...
CCL4: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen-induci...
CCL5: This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The sup...
CCL7: This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokinewhich attracts macrophages durin...
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclin...
CCR1: This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, whichis predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupledreceptors. The ligands of this receptor...
CCR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for monocyte chemoattractantprotein-1, a chemokine which specifically mediates mo...
CCR5: This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, whichis predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupledreceptors. This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is knownto be an important ...
CD1D: This gene encodes a divergent member of the CD1 family of transmembraneglycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibilitycomplex (MHC) pro...
CD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen found on all...
CD247: The protein encoded by this gene is T-cell receptor zeta, which togetherwith T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamm...
CD28: The protein encoded by this gene is essential for T-cell p...
CD3D: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the T-cell receptor/CD3complex (TCR/CD3 complex) and is involved in T-cell development and signaltransduction...
CD3E: The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-epsilon polypeptide, whichtogether with CD3-gamma, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alph...
CD3G: The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-gamma polypeptide, whichtogether with CD3-epsilon, -delta and -zeta, a...
CD4: This gene encodes the CD4 membrane glycoprotein of T lymphocytes. TheCD4 antigen acts as a coreceptor with the T-cell receptor on the T lymphocyteto recognize antigens displayed by an anti...
CD40: This gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded proteinis a receptor on antigen-presenting cells of the immune system and is essentialfor mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses i...
CD40LG: The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface o...
CD47: This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increasein intracellular calcium concentration...
CD7: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is a member of ...
CD74: The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibilitycomplex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that ...
CD79A: The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includesthe antigen-specific component...
CD80: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane receptor that is ac...
CD86: This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-pr...
CD8A: The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxicT lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immunesystem. The CD8 antigen acts as a core...
CD8B: The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxicT lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immunesystem. The CD8 antigen, acti...
CD96: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily.It is a ...
CDKN2A: This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in theirfirst exons. At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinctproteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoformsknown to function...
CFP: This gene encodes a plasma glycoprotein that positively regulates thealternative complement pathway of the innate immune system. ...
CRTAM: The CRTAM gene is upregulated in CD4 (see MIM 186940...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, a...
CSK: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in multiple pathways, includingthe regulation of Src family kinases. It plays an important role in T-cellactivation th...
CTSS: The preproprotein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that participates in the degradationof antigenic proteins to peptides for presentation on ...
CXCL13: B lymphocyte chemoattractant, independently cloned and named Angie,is an antimicrobial peptide and CXC chem...
CXCL9: This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodessecr...
CXCR3: This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor with selectivity forthree chemokines, termed CXCL9/Mig (monokine induced by interferon-g), CX...
DARS1: This gene encodes a member of a multienzyme complex that functionsin mediating the att...
DEGS1: This gene encodes a member of the membrane fatty acid desaturase familywhich is responsible for inserting double bonds into s...
DYRK3: This gene product belongs to the DYRK family of dual-specificity proteinkinases that catalyze autophosphorylation on seri...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein thatis a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a rec...
EIF3A: Enables RNA binding activity. Contributes to translation initiationfactor activity. I...
EIF3D: Eukaryotic translation initiation factor-3 (eIF3), the largest of theeIFs, is a multiprotein complex composed of at l...
EIF3J: This gene encodes a core subunit of the eukaryotic initiation factor3 complex, whi...
EIF4G3: The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be part of the eIF4Fprotein complex, which is involv...
EIF5A: Enables U6 snRNA binding activity and protein N-terminus binding activity.Involved i...
ELANE: Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze manyproteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encodestructurally similar proteins. The encoded pr...
ELF4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator thatbinds and activa...
EREG: This gene encodes a secreted peptide hormone and member of the epidermalgrowth factor (EGF) family of proteins. Th...
ETS1: This gene encodes a member of the ETS family of transcription factors,which are defined by the presence of a c...
F2: This gene encodes the prothrombin protein (also known as coagulation factorII). This protein is proteolytically cleaved in multiple steps to form theactivated serine protease thrombin. The activated thromb...
F2R: Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor invol...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a centralrole in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has beenimplic...
FASLG: This gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily. Theprimary function of the encoded transmembrane protein is th...
FCGR2B: The protein encoded by this gene is a low affinity receptor for theFc region of immunoglobuli...
FGR: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs).The encoded protein contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palm...
FLNA: The protein encoded by this gene is an actin-binding protein that crosslinksactin filaments and links actin filaments to membrane glycoproteins. The encodedpr...
FYB1: The protein encoded by this gene is an adapter for the FYN protein ...
GALNT1: This gene encodes a member of the UDP-N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosamine:polypeptideN-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (GalNAc-T) family of enzymes. GalNAc-Tsinit...
GBP2: This gene belongs to the guanine-binding protein (GBP) family, whichi...
GCNT1: This gene is a member of the beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferasegene family. It...
GLMN: This gene encodes a phosphorylated protein that is a member of a Skp1-Cullin-F-b...
GPR65: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity. Involved in se...
GZMA: Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share theremarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse s...
GZMB: This gene encodes a member of the granzyme subfamily of proteins, partof the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases. The ...
HCLS1: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity and protein...
HDAC9: Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycleprogression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alterschromosome str...
HIF1A: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-induciblefactor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subu...
HLA-A: HLA-A belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain(beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. ClassI molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptidesderived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen...
HLA-DMA: HLA-DMA belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. Thisclass II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DMA) and a betachain (DMB), bo...
HLA-DMB: HLA-DMB belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogues. This classII molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DMA) and a beta (DMB)chain, both anchored i...
HLA-DOA: HLA-DOA belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. HLA-DOAforms a heterod...
HLA-DOB: HLA-DOB belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogues. This classII molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DOA) and a beta chain...
HLA-DQA1: HLA-DQA1 belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. Theclass II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DQA) and a betachain (DQB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays ...
HLA-DRA: HLA-DRA is one of the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. This classII molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha and a beta chain, bothanchored in the membrane. This molecul...
HLA-E: HLA-E belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light c...
HLA-G: HLA-G belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain a...
ICAM1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is t...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to b...
IFNAR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein thatforms one of the two chai...
IFNG: This gene encodes a soluble cytokine that is a member of the type IIinterferon class. The encoded protein...
IFNGR1: This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of thegamma interferon receptor. Hu...
IFNGR2: This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of thegamma interferon receptor. Hum...
IGSF6: Predicted to enable transmembrane signaling receptor a...
IKBKB: The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the inhibitor in theinhib...
IL10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine produced primarily bymonocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes. This cytokine has pleiotropiceffects in i...
IL11: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the gp130 family ofcytokines. These cytokines drive the assembly of multisu...
IL12A: This gene encodes a subunit of a cytokine that acts on T and naturalkiller cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. The cytokineis a di...
IL12B: This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that actson T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities.Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer c...
IL12RB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane proteinthat belongs to the hemopoietin receptor superfamily. This protein binds tointerleukine 12 (...
IL13: This gene encodes an immunoregulatory cytokine produced primarily byactivated Th2 cells. This cytokine is involved in several stages of B-cellmatu...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T andnatural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine2 share many biological activities. They are...
IL16: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine that functionsas a chemoattractant, a modulator of T cell activation, and an i...
IL18: The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine of theIL-1 family that is constitutively found as a precursor within the cytoplasmof a...
IL18RAP: The protein encoded by this gene is an accessory subunit of the heterodimericreceptor for interleukin 18 (IL18), a proinf...
IL1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein,which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE).This cy...
IL2: This gene is a member of the interleukin 2 (IL2) cytokine subfamily whichincludes IL4, IL7, IL9, IL15, IL21, erythropoietin, and thrombopoietin. Theprotein encoded by th...
IL27RA: In mice, CD4+ helper T-cells differentiate into type 1 (Th1) cells,which are critical for cell-mediated immunity, predominantly und...
IL2RA: The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains,together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinityIL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity re...
IL2RB: The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immuneresponses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit a...
IL2RG: The protein encoded by this gene is an important signaling componentof many interleu...
IL4: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine produced byactivated T cells. This cytokine is a ligand for interleukin 4 receptor. Theinterleukin 4 receptor also binds to IL13, which may contribute to many overlappingfunctions of this cytokine and IL13. STAT6, a signal transducer and activatorof transcription, ha...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. ...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen ...
IL7: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine important for B and Tcell development. This cytokine and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) forma heterodimer that functions as a pre-pro-B cell growth-stimulating factor.IL7 is found to be a cofactor for V(D)J ...
IL9: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that acts as a regulatorof a variety of hematopoietic cells. This cytokine stimulates ...
INHBA: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of proteins. The encoded ...
INHBB: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of protei...
IRF4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the IRF (interferon regulatoryfactor) family of transcription factors, characterized by an unique tryptophan...
IRF7: This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferonregulatory transcript...
IRF8: Interferon consensus sequence-binding protein (ICSBP) is a transcriptionfactor of the interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF) fa...
ITGAL: ITGAL encodes the integrin alpha L chain. Integrins are heterodimericintegral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta cha...
ITGB2: This gene encodes an integrin beta chain, which combines with multipledifferent alpha chains to fo...
ITK: This gene encodes an intracellular tyrosine kinase expre...
JAK2: This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a centralrole in cytokine and growth factor signalling. The primary isoform of thisprotein has an N-terminal FERM domain that is required for erythropoietinreceptor association, an SH2 domain that binds STAT transcription factors,a pseudokinase domain and a C-terminal tyrosine kina...
KLRD1: Natural killer (NK) cells are a distinct lineage of lymphocytes thatmediate cytotoxic activity and secrete cytokines upon...
KRT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family.The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral p...
LCK: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs).The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and m...
LCP2: This gene encodes an adapter protein that acts as a substrate of theT cell antigen receptor (TCR)-activated prot...
LIF: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with rolesin several different systems. It is involv...
LTB: Lymphotoxin beta is a type II membrane protein of the TNF family. Itanchors lymphotoxin-alpha to the cell surface through heterotrimer formation.The predominant fo...
LY75: Predicted to enable signaling receptor acti...
LY86: Acts upstream of or within positive regul...
LYN: This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe ...
MAP3K7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonineprotein kinase family. This kinase mediates the signaling transduction induced...
MAP4K1: Enables ATP binding activity and MAP kinase kinase kinase k...
MBL2: This gene encodes the soluble mannose-binding lectin or mannose-bindingprotein found in serum. The protein encoded belo...
MMP9: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved inthe breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such...
MRPL3: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genesand help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes(mitoribosomes) consist...
MTIF2: During the initiation of protein biosynthesis, initiation factor-2(IF-2) promotes the binding of the initiator tRNA to the small subunit ofthe r...
NCF4: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic regulatory componentof the superoxide-producing phagocyte NADPH-oxidase, a multicomponent enzymesystem important for host defense. This protein is prefer...
NCK1: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the signaling and transformingproteins conta...
NCR1: Predicted to be involved in cellular defense response; regulation ofnatural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity...
NLRP3: This gene encodes a pyrin-like protein containing a pyrin domain, anucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif.This protein interacts with the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein PYCARD/ASC,which contains a caspase recruitment domain, and is a...
NME1: This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcriptlevels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (...
NOS2: Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical which acts as a biologic mediatorin several processe...
NPM1: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in several cellular processes,including centrosome duplication, protein chaperoni...
PF4: This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokineis released from the alpha gran...
PRF1: This gene encodes a protein with structural similarities to complementcomponent C9 that is important in immunity. This protein forms membrane pores...
PRKCB: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specificprotein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol.PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein ta...
PRKCG: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specificprotein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol.PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and areknown to be i...
PSMB10: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are c...
PTPN6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes inc...
PTPRC: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes including cell grow...
RARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate ami...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP)family of serine/th...
RPL39: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consistof a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits arecomposed of 4 R...
RPL3L: This gene encodes a protein that shares sequence similarity with ribosomalprotein L3. The protein belongs to...
RPL9: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist ofa small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these ...
RPS19: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consistof a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits arecomposed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct pro...
RPS3A: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consistof a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits arecomposed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally ...
RPS9: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist ofa small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composedof 4 RNA sp...
SIT1: Enables kinase binding activity. ...
SOCS1: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI familymemb...
SOCS5: The protein encoded by this gene contains a SH2 domain and a SOCS BOXdomain. The protein thus belongs to t...
SPI1: This gene encodes an ETS-domain transcription factor that activatesgene expression during myeloid and B-lymph...
SRGN: This gene encodes a protein best known as a hematopoietic cell granuleproteoglycan. Proteoglycans stored in the sec...
ST8SIA4: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the polycondensation ofalpha-2,8-linked sialic acid requi...
STAB1: This gene encodes a large, transmembrane receptor protein which mayfunction in angiogenesis, lymphocyte homing, cell adhesion, or receptor scavenging.The p...
STAT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the recepto...
STAT4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family oftranscription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT f...
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra-...
TAP2: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes....
TAPBP: This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein which mediates interactionbetween newly assembled major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I moleculesand the transpor...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD fami...
TGFB2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcripti...
THY1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein and member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily of proteins. T...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptida...
TLR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immu...
TLR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are...
TLR3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are high...
TLR6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity...
TNF: This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongsto the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secretedby macrophages. It can bind to, an...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein ...
TRAF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor associatedfactor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate thesignal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. This proteindirectl...
TRAT1: Predicted to enable transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinaseadaptor activit...
UBE2D1: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least thr...
UBE2N: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or s...
WARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids withnu...
WAS: The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) family of proteins share similar domainstructure, and are involved in transduction of signals from receptors on thecell surface to the actin cytoskeleton.  The presence of a number of differentmot...
ZAP70: This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the protein tyrosine kinasefamily, and it plays a role in T-cell development and lymphocyte activation.Th...
////
ACTA1: The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins,which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structureand inte...
ACTB: This gene encodes one of six different actin proteins. Actins are highlyconserved proteins that are involved in cell motility, ...
ACTC1: Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various typesof cell motility. Polymerization of globular actin (G-actin) leads...
ACTG1: Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various typesof cell motility and in maintenance of the cytoskeleton. Three main groupsof actin isoforms have bee...
ACTG2: Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various typesof cell motility and in the maintenance of the cytoskeleton. Three types ofactins, alpha, b...
ACTN1: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins. Alpha acti...
ACTN2: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins. Alp...
ACTN3: This gene encodes a member of the alpha-actin binding protein genefamily. The encoded protein is primarily ...
ACTN4: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins.  Alpha acti...
ADAM15: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAM (a disintegrinand metalloproteinase) protein family. ADAM family members are type I transmembraneglycoproteins known to be i...
ADAM23: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteasedomain) family. Members of th...
ADAM9: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteasedomain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structur...
ADAMTS5: This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinasewith thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share sever...
ADRA1B: Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupledreceptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate gr...
AKT2: This gene is a putative oncogene encoding a protein belonging to a subfamilyof serine/threonine kinases containing SH...
AKT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AKT, also calledPKB,  serine/threonine protein kinase family. AKT kinases are known...
ALOX15B: This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of structurallyrelated nonheme iron dioxygenases involved in the ...
AMH: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruit...
AMIGO1: Predicted to enable potassium channel regulator activity. Predictedto be involved in several processes, including heterophilic...
AMIGO2: Predicted to be involved in several processes, including heterophiliccell-cell adhesion via plasma membrane ...
ARHGEF6: Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processesthat are initiated by extracellular stimuli ...
ARPC2: This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 proteincomplex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has b...
ATP1A3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cationtransport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPaseis an integral membrane prot...
B4GALT1: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, andXyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of differ...
BAIAP2: The protein encoded by this gene has been identified as a brain-specificangiogenesis inhibitor (BAI1)-binding protein. This adaptor protein linksmembrane bound G-proteins to cytoplasmic ef...
BMP1: This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation ofcartilage in vivo. A...
CADM2: This gene encodes a member of the synaptic cell adhesion molecule 1(SynCAM) family which belongs t...
CADM3: The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-independent cell-cell...
CALB2: This gene encodes an intracellular calcium-binding protein belongingto the troponin C superfamily. Members of this...
CAP1: The protein encoded by this gene is related to the S. cerevisiae CAPprote...
CD209: This gene encodes a C-type lectin that functions in cell adhesion andpathogen recognition. This receptor recognizes a wide range of evolutionarilydivergent pathogens with a large impact on public health, including leprosyand tuberculosis mycobacteria...
CD274: This gene encodes an immune inhibitory receptor ligand that is expressedby hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells, such as T cells and B cellsand various types of tumor cells. The encoded...
CD276: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily,and thought to participate in the regulation of T-cell-mediated immune respon...
CD34: The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in the attachment ofste...
CD86: This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-pr...
CD99: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface glycoprotein involvedin leukocyte migration, T-cell adhesion, ganglio...
CDH1: This gene encodes a classical cadherin of the cadherin superfamily.Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least oneof which encodes a preproprotein that is proteoly...
CDH11: This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily,integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-...
CDH15: This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily of genes, encodingcalcium-dependent intercellular adhesion glycoprotei...
CDH3: This gene encodes a classical cadherin of the cadherin superfamily.Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least oneof which encodes a preproprotein that ...
CDH4: This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. Theencoded protein is a calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprisedof five extracellular...
CDH6: This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. Cadherins aremembrane glycoproteins t...
CDH8: This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily,integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion.Mature cadhe...
CDK8: This gene encodes a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK)family. CDK family members are known to be important regulators of cell cycleprogression. This ki...
CDSN: This gene encodes a protein found in corneodesmosomes, which localizeto human epidermis and other cornifi...
CERCAM: Enables identical protein binding activi...
CLDN11: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junctionstrands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes an...
CLDN14: Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelialor endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and servingas a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing...
CLDN15: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of t...
CLDN18: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junctionstrands serve as a ph...
CLDN19: The product of this gene belongs to the claudin family. It plays amajor role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space,t...
CLDN4: The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the claudinfamily. Claudins are integral membrane proteins that...
CLDN5: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of...
CLDN6: Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelialor endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and servingas a physical barr...
CLDN7: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junctionstrands serve...
CLDN8: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junctionstrands serve as a physical bar...
CLDN9: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tigh...
CNN2: The protein encoded by this gene, which can bind actin, calmodulin,troponin C, and tropomyosin, may fu...
CNTN1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily. It is a gl...
COL16A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVI collagen, a memberof the FACIT collagen family (fib...
COL17A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVII collagen. Unlike mostcollagens, collagen XVII is a transmembrane protein. Collagen XVII is a str...
COL9A1: This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen,which is a minor (5-20%) collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IXcollagen is usually found in tis...
CRAT: This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitineacyltransferase family and a key metabolic p...
CRB3: This gene encodes a member of the Crumbs family of proteins. This geneis wide...
CTNNA1: This gene encodes a member of the catenin family of proteins thatplay an important role in cell adhesion proces...
CTNND1: This gene encodes a member of the Armadillo protein family, whichfunction in adhesion between cells and s...
CX3CL1: This gene belongs to the CX3C subgroup of chemokines, characterizedby the number of amino acids located between the conserved cysteine residues.This is the only member of the CX3C subgroup, whi...
DHX16: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp(DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellularprocesses involving alteration...
DLG1: This gene encodes a multi-domain scaffolding protein that is requiredfor normal development. This protein may have a...
DMP1: Dentin matrix acidic phosphoprotein is an extracellular matrix proteinand a member of the small integrin binding ligand N-linked glycoprotein family.This protein, which is critical for proper mineralization of bon...
DSC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-dependent glycoproteinthat is a member of the desmocollin subfamily of the cadherin superfamily.These desmosomal family members...
DSC3: The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-dependent glycoproteinthat is a member of the desmocollin subfamily of the cadherin superfamily.These desmosomal family mem...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein thatis a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a rec...
EPB41L2: Predicted to enable PH domain binding activity; cytoskeletal proteinbi...
EVL: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity and profilin bi...
EXOC4: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the exocyst complex,a multiple protein complex essential for targeting exocytic vesicles to specific...
FBN1: This gene encodes a member of the fibrillin family of proteins. Theencoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate two proteinsincluding the extracellular ...
FLNC: This gene encodes one of three related filamin genes, specifically gammafilamin. These filamin proteins crosslink actin fila...
FSCN1: This gene encodes a member of the fascin family of actin-binding proteins.Fascin proteins organize F-actin into parallel bundles, and are requir...
FYB1: The protein encoded by this gene is an adapter for the FYN protein ...
GAMT: The protein encoded by this gene is a methyltransferase that convertsguanidoacetate to creatine, using S-ade...
GNAI1: Guanine nucleotide binding proteins are heterotrimeric signal-transducingmolecules consisting of alpha, beta, and...
GNAI2: The protein encoded by this gene is an alpha subunit of guanine nucleotide...
GRB7: The product of this gene belongs to a small family of adapter proteinsthat are known to interact with a number of ...
GTF2F1: Enables several functions, including RNA polymerase II general transcriptioninitiation factor activity; p...
HADH: This gene is a member of the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene family.The encoded protein functions...
HRAS: This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are relatedto the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The productsencoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These p...
ICAM1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is t...
ICAM2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the intercellular adhesionmolecule (ICAM) family. All ICAM proteins are type I transmembrane gl...
ICAM4: This gene encodes the Landsteiner-Wiener (LW) blood group antigen(s)that belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamil...
ICAM5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the intercellular adhesionmolecule (ICAM) family. All ICAM proteins are type I trans...
IKBKG: This gene encodes the regulatory subunit of the inhibitor of kappaBkinase (IKK) complex, which activ...
INPPL1: The protein encoded by this gene is an SH2-containing 5''-inositolphosphatase that i...
INSIG1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein that regulatescholesterol metabolism, lipogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. The encodedp...
IRS1: This gene encodes a protein which is phosphory...
ITGA10: Integrins are integral transmembrane glycoproteins composed of noncovalentlylinked alpha and beta cha...
ITGA2: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of a transmembrane receptor forcollagens and related proteins. The encoded protein forms ...
ITGA3: The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane protei...
ITGA9: This gene encodes an alpha integrin. Integrins are heterodimeric integralmembrane glycoprote...
ITGB1: Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits.At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have...
ITGB4: Integrins are heterodimers comprised of alpha and beta subunits, thatare noncovalently associated transmembrane glycoprotein receptors. Differentcombinations of alpha ...
JAM3: Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelialor endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and servingas a physical barrier to prevent solute...
JUP: This gene encodes a major cytoplasmic protein which is the only knownconstituent common to submembranous plaques o...
KCNH2: This gene encodes a component of a voltage-activated potassium channelfound in car...
KRT31: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family...
LAMA3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the laminin family of secretedmolecules. Laminins are heterotrimeric molecules that consist of alpha, beta,and gamma subunits that...
LAMB3: The product encoded by this gene is a laminin that belongs to a familyof basement membrane proteins. This protei...
LAMC2: Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the majornoncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicatedin a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation,migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composedof 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1,and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms,each formed by a different chain, and a long arm compose...
LAYN: Enables hyaluronic acid b...
LDLRAP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic protein which containsa ...
LIMA1: This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein that inhibits actinfilament ...
MADCAM1: The protein encoded by this gene is an endothelial cell adhesionmolecule that interacts preferentially with the leuko...
MAP3K20: This gene is a member of the MAPKKK family of signal transductionmolecules and encodes a protein with an N-terminal kinase catalyt...
MAP4K2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonineprotein kinase family. Although this kinase is found in m...
MAPK11: This gene encodes a member of a family of protein kinases that areinvolved in the integration of biochemic...
MAPK13: This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP)kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multip...
MAPK14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family.MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals,and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes...
MDK: This gene encodes a member of a small family of secreted growth factorsthat binds heparin...
MMP2: This gene is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family,that are zinc-dependent enzymes capable of cleaving components of the extracellularmatrix and molecules involved in signal transduction. The protein encoded...
MMP9: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved inthe breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such...
MPZL1: Predicted to enable structural molecule activity. Predicted to be invol...
MPZL2: Thymus development depends on a complex series of interactions betweenthymocytes and the stromal component of the organ. Epithelial V-like antigen(EVA) is expressed in thymus epithelium and strongly downregulated by thymocyte...
MSN: Moesin (for membrane-organizing extension spike protein) is a memberof the ERM fami...
MVD: The enzyme mevalonate pyrophosphate decarboxylase catalyzes ...
MYH10: This gene encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. The protein representsa conventional non-muscle myosin; it s...
MYH9: This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein shouldnot be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9...
MYL12B: The activity of nonmuscle myosin II (see MYH9; MIM 160775) is r...
MYL9: Myosin, a structural component of muscle, consists of two heavy chainsand four light chai...
NECTIN1: This gene encodes an adhesion protein that plays a role in the organizationof adherens junctions and tight junctions in epithelial and endothelial cells.The protein is a calcium(2+)-in...
NECTIN2: This gene encodes a single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein withtwo Ig-like C2-type domains and an Ig-like V-type domain. ...
NECTIN3: This gene encodes a member of the nectin family of proteins, whichfunction as adhesion molecules at adherens junctio...
NECTIN4: This gene encodes a member of the nectin family. The encoded proteincontains two immunoglobulin-like (Ig-like) C2-type domains and one Ig-likeV-type domain. I...
NEGR1: Predicted to act upstream of or within several processes, i...
NEXN: This gene encodes a filamentous actin-binding protein that ma...
NF1: This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of theras signal transduction pathway....
NF2: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to some members of the ERM(ezrin, radixin, moesin) family of proteins that link cytoskeletal componentswith proteins in ...
NFASC: This gene encodes an L1 family immunoglobulin cell adhesion moleculewith multiple IGcam and fibronectin domains. The protein functions in neuriteoutgrowth, neu...
NLGN2: This gene encodes a member of a family of neuronal cell s...
NLGN3: This gene encodes a member of a family of neuronal cell surface proteins.Members of this fa...
NRAP: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and muscle alpha-...
NRTN: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfa...
NRXN2: This gene encodes a member of the neurexin gene family. The productsof these genes function as cell adhesion molecules and receptors in the vertebratenervous system. These ge...
PALS1: This gene encodes a member of the p55-like subfamily of the membrane-associatedguanylate kinase (MAGUK) gene superfamily...
PARD6G: Predicted to enable protein kinase C binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in centro...
PARVA: This gene encodes a member of the parvin family of actin-binding proteins...
PBX2: This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed member of the TALE/PBX homeoboxfamily. It...
PCDH1: This gene belongs to the protocadherin subfamily within the cadherinsuperfamily. The encoded protein is a mem...
NHERF4: Guanylyl cyclase C (GCC, or GUCY2C; MIM 601330) produces cGMP followingthe binding of either endogenous ligands or heat-stable ...
PECAM1: The protein encoded by this gene is found on the surface of platelets,monocyte...
PFN1: This gene encodes a member of the profilin family of small actin-bindingproteins. The encode...
PIK3CB: This gene encodes an isoform of the catalytic subunit of phosphoinositide3-kinase (PI3K). These kinases are impor...
PIK3R3: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) phosphorylates phosphatidylinositoland similar compounds,...
PKD1: This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family. The encodedglycoprotein contains a large N-terminal extracellular region, multiple transmembranedomains and a cytoplasmic C-tail. It ...
PLCG1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate.Th...
PPP2R2C: The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2 regulatorysubunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosph...
PTEN: This gene was identified as a tumor suppressor that is mutated in alarge number of cancers at high frequency. The protein encoded by this geneis a phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase. It contains atensin like domain as we...
PTK2: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is foundconcentrated in the focal adhesions that form between cells growing in th...
PTPRC: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes including cell grow...
RAC2: This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of small guanosinetriphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing protei...
RASA1: The protein encoded by this gene is located in the cytoplasm and ispart of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activating proteins. The gene product stimulatesthe GTPase activity of normal RAS p21 but not its onc...
RHOF: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPa...
RRAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a small GTPase involv...
RSU1: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the Ras signal transductionpathway, growth inhibition,...
SDC3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the syndecan proteoglycanfam...
SGCE: This gene encodes the epsilon member of the sarcoglycan family. Sarcoglycansare transmembrane proteins that are components of the dystrophin-glycop...
SHC1: This gene encodes three main isoforms that differ in activities andsubcellular location. While all three are adapter proteins in signa...
SHROOM2: This gene represents the human homolog of Xenopus laevis apical protein(APX) gene, which is implicated in amiloride-sensi...
SIRPA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the signal-regulatory-protein(SIRP) family, and also belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. SIRP familymembers are receptor-type transmembrane glycoproteins...
SKAP2: The protein encoded by this gene shares homology with Src kinase-associatedphosphoprotein 1, and is a substrate of Src family kinases. It is an adaptorprotein that is thought ...
SLC30A3: Predicted to enable zinc ion transmembrane tr...
SLIT2: This gene encodes a member of the slit family of secreted glycoproteins,which are ligands for the Robo family of immunoglobulin receptors. Slit proteinsplay highly conserved roles in axon guidance and neu...
SORBS3: This gene encodes an SH3 domain-containing adaptor protein. The presenceof SH3 d...
SPEG: This gene encodes a protein with similarity to members of the myosinlight ch...
SRC: This gene is highly similar to the v-src gene of Rous sarcoma virus.This proto-oncogene may play a rol...
STX4: Enables sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, includin...
SYK: This gene encodes a member of the family of non-receptor type Tyr proteinkinases. This protein is widely expressed in h...
SYMPK: This gene encodes a nuclear protein that functions in the regulationof polyadenylation and promotes gene express...
TAOK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involv...
TGFBI: This gene encodes an RGD-containing protein that binds to type I, IIand IV collagens. The RGD motif is found in many ...
THBS3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the thrombospondin family.Thrombospondin f...
THY1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein and member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily of proteins. T...
TIAL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of RNA-bindingproteins, has three RNA recognition motif...
TJP1: This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase(MAGUK) family of proteins, and acts as a tight junction adaptor protein thatalso regul...
TMEM8B: Involved in cell-matrix adh...
TNFRSF11B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This protein is an osteoblast-secreted decoy receptor th...
TRAF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor (TNFR)associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, andmediate the signal transduction from various receptors...
TRO: This gene encodes a membrane protein that mediates cell adhesion betweentrophoblastic cell...
TSC1: This gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes the growth inhibitoryprotein hamartin. The encoded protein interacts with and stabilizes the GTPaseactiv...
TSPAN4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these membersare ...
TUBG1: This gene encodes a member of the tubulin superfamily. The encodedprotein localizes...
VASP: Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) is a member of the Ena-VASPprotein family. Ena-VASP family members contain an EHV1 N-terminal domainthat binds proteins c...
VAV2: VAV2 is the second member of the VAV guanine nucleotide exchange facto...
VCAM1: This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surfacesialoglycoprotein expre...
VCAN: This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family.The protein encoded is a large chondroitin ...
VCL: Vinculin is a cytoskeletal protein associated with cell-cell and cell-matrixjunctions, where it is thought to function as one o...
VWF: This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in hemostasis. The encodedpreproprotein is proteolytical...
WASL: This gene encodes a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) proteinfamily. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome proteins share simil...
WNK4: This gene encodes a member of the WNK family of serine-threonine proteinkinases. The kinase is p...
YWHAH: This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediatesignal transduction by binding t...
ZYX: Focal adhesions are actin-rich structures that enable cells to adhereto the extracellular matrix and at which protein complexes involved in signaltransduction assemble. Zyxin is a...
////
ACTN2: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins. Alp...
ADAM9: This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteasedomain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structur...
ADRA2B: This intronless gene encodes a seven-pass transmembrane prot...
AKAP10: This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchor protein family.A-kinase anchor proteins bind to ...
ANG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RNase A superfamilythough it has relatively weak ribonucleolytic activity. This protein is apotent mediator of new blood vessel formation and thus, in addition to thename RNase5, is commonly called angiogenin. This protein induces angiogenesisafter bi...
ANXA5: The Annexin 5 gene spans 29 kb containing 13 exons, and encodes a singletranscript of approximately 1.6 kb and a protein product with a molecularweight of about 35 kDa.The protein ...
APOA4: Apoliprotein (apo) A-IV gene contains 3 exons separated by two introns.A sequence polymorphism has been ...
APOBEC3F: This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. Itis one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found i...
APOBEC3G: This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. Itis one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a c...
APOC1: This gene encodes a member of the apolipoprotein C1 family. This geneis expressed primarily in the liver, and it is activated when monocytes differe...
ATOX1: This gene encodes a copper chaperone that plays a role in copper homeostasisby binding and transportin...
BRPF3: Predicted to enable histone binding activity. In...
C1QA: This gene encodes the A-chain polypeptide of serum complement subcomponentC1q, which associates with C1r and C...
C1QC: This gene encodes the C-chain polypeptide of serum complement subcomponentC1q, which associates w...
C1R: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encodedprotein i...
C1S: This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent oft...
C2: Component C2 is a serum glycoprotein that functions as part of the classicalpathway of the complement system. Activated C1 cleaves C2 into C2a and C2b.The serine...
C3: Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complementsystem. Its activation is required for both classical and a...
C4BPB: This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of proteins composed predominantlyof tandemly arrayed short consensus repeats of approximately 60 amino acids.A single, unique beta-cha...
C9: This gene encodes the final component of the complement system. It par...
CA2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carboni...
CALM1: This gene encodes one of three calmodulin proteins which are membersof the EF-hand calcium-binding p...
CALM3: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that binds calc...
CASP1: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role in the execution-phase of cell ...
CASP10: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role i...
CASP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid proteasethat plays a central role in the execution-phase...
CASP4: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral rol...
CASP5: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. C...
CASP7: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a centra...
CASP9: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cel...
CBLB: This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which promotes proteosome-mediatedprotein degradation by transferring ubiquitin from an E2 ubiqui...
CCL5: This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The sup...
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein ofthe platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in plateletsand various cell li...
CD40LG: The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface o...
CD46: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and isa regulatory part of the complement system. The encoded protein has cofactoractivity for inacti...
CD55: This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in the regulation of the complementcascade. Binding of the encoded prot...
CD59: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that regulates complement-mediatedcell lysis, and it is involved in lymphocyte signal transduction. This proteinis a poten...
CDA: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encodedprotein forms a homotetramer that ca...
CDH13: This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. The encodedprotein is localized to the surface of the cell membrane and is anchored bya GPI moie...
CDK5R1: The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activatorof cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required forproper development of the ce...
CEBPB: This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains abasic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain. The enco...
CFB: This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternativepathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a singlechain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternat...
CFH: This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA)gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short ...
CLU: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can undersome ...
COL4A2: This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, themajor structural component o...
CP: The protein encoded by this gene is a metalloprotein that binds most ofthe copper in plasma and is ...
CPM: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound arginine/lysinecarboxypeptidase. Its expression is assoc...
CPQ: This gene encodes a metallopeptidase that bel...
CR1: This gene is a member of the receptors of complement activation (RCA)family and is located in the ''cluster RCA'' region of chromosome 1. The genomeis polymorphic at this locus with allele-specific splice variants encoding...
CR2: This gene encodes a membrane protein, which functions as a receptor forEpstei...
CSRP1: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-rich protein (CSRP) family.This gene family includes a gro...
CTSB: This gene encodes a member of the C1 family of peptidases. Alternativesplicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least oneof these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate multiple protei...
CTSC: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase C1 family and lysosomalcysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activationof many serine proteinases i...
CTSD: This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. The encodedpreproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple...
CTSH: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinaseimportant in the overall degradation of lysosomal proteins....
CTSL: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinasethat plays a major role in intracellular protein catabolism. Its substratesinclude collagen and elas...
CTSO: The protein encoded by the gene is a cysteine proteinase and a memberof the papain supe...
CTSS: The preproprotein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that participates in the degradationof antigenic proteins to peptides for presentation on ...
CTSV: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family,is a lysosomal cysteine ...
CXCL1: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines.The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that s...
DGKG: This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the type I subfamilyof diacylglycerol kinases, which are involved in lipid metabolism. These enzy...
DGKH: This gene encodes a member of the diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) enzymefamil...
DOCK10: This gene encodes a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis proteinfamily. Members of this family are...
DOCK4: This gene is a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) familyand encodes a protein with a DHR-1 (CZH-1) domain, a DH...
DOCK9: Enables cadherin binding activity. P...
DPP4: The DPP4 gene encodes dipeptidyl peptidase 4, which is identical toadenosine deaminase complexing protein-2, and to the T-cell activation a...
DUSP5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificityprotein phosphatase subfamily.  These phosphatases inactivate their targetkinases by dephosphorylating both the ph...
DUSP6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificityprotein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their targetkinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosinere...
DYRK2: DYRK2 belongs to a family of protein kinases whose members are presumedto be involved in cellular growth an...
EHD1: This gene belongs to a highly conserved gene family encoding EPS15 homology(EH) domain-containing proteins. The pro...
ERAP2: This gene encodes a zinc metalloaminopeptidase of the M1 protease familythat resides in the endoplasmic...
F10: This gene encodes the vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor X of theblood coagulation cascade. This factor undergoes multiple processing stepsbefore its preproprotein is converted to a mature two-chain form by the excisionof t...
F2: This gene encodes the prothrombin protein (also known as coagulation factorII). This protein is proteolytically cleaved in multiple steps to form theactivated serine protease thrombin. The activated thromb...
F3: This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, andit functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.The resulting complex provides a ca...
F5: This gene encodes an essential cofactor of the blood coagulation cascade.This factor circulates in plasma, and is converted to the ac...
F7: This gene encodes coagulation factor VII which is a vitamin K-dependentfactor essential for hemostasis. This factor circulates in the blood in azymogen form, and is converted to an activ...
F8: This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsicpathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which,in the presence of...
FCER1G: The high affinity IgE receptor is a key molecule ...
FCN1: The ficolin family of proteins are characterized by the presence ofa leader peptide, a short N-terminal segment, followed by a collagen-li...
FDX1: This gene encodes a small iron-sulfur protein that transfers el...
FN1: This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimericform in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface and...
FYN: This gene is a member of the protein-tyrosine kinase oncogene family.It encodes a m...
GATA3: This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcriptionf...
GCA: This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein that is abundant in neutrophilsand macrophages. In th...
GMFB: Predicted to enable Arp2/3 complex binding activity. Predicted ...
GNAI2: The protein encoded by this gene is an alpha subunit of guanine nucleotide...
GNAI3: Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulatorsor transducers in various tr...
GNB2: Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), whichintegrate signals between receptors ...
GNB4: Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), whichintegrate signals b...
GNG2: This gene encodes one of the gamma subunits of a guanine n...
GNGT2: Phototransduction in rod and cone photoreceptors is regulated by groupsof si...
GP1BA: Glycoprotein Ib (GP Ib) is a platelet surface membrane glycoproteincomposed of a heterodimer, an alpha chain and a beta chain, that is linkedby disulfide bonds. The Gp Ib functions as a receptor for von Willeb...
GP9: This gene encodes a small membrane glycoprotein found on the surfaceof human platelets. It forms a 1-to-1 noncovalent complex with ...
GPD2: The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrialmembrane and cataly...
GRB2: The protein encoded by this gene binds the epidermal growth factor receptorand contains one SH2 domain and ...
GZMA: Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share theremarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse s...
GZMB: This gene encodes a member of the granzyme subfamily of proteins, partof the peptidase S1 family of serine proteases. The ...
GZMK: This gene product is a member of a group of related serine proteasesfrom the cytoplasmic granules of cytotoxic lymphocyt...
HNF4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcription factorwhich binds DNA as a homodimer. The encoded protein controls the ...
HPCAL4: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to human hippocalcinprotein and hippocalcin like-1 pr...
HSPA1A: This intronless gene encodes a 70kDa heat shock protein which is amember of the heat shock protein 70 family. In conjuction wit...
HSPA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein70 (HSP70) family. This protein localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum (ER) where it operates as a typical HSP70 chaperone involved inthe foldin...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen ...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innatean...
IRF2: IRF2 encodes interferon regulatory factor 2, a member of the interferonregulatory t...
IRF7: This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferonregulatory transcript...
ITGAM: This gene encodes the integrin alpha M chain. Integrins are heterodimericintegral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a be...
ITIH1: This gene encodes a member of the inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple tra...
JAK2: This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a centralrole in cytokine and growth factor signalling. The primary isoform of thisprotein has an N-terminal FERM domain that is required for erythropoietinreceptor association, an SH2 domain that binds STAT transcription factors,a pseudokinase domain and a C-terminal tyrosine kina...
KCNIP2: This gene encodes a member of the family of voltage-gated potassium(Kv) channel-interacting proteins (KCNIPs), which belongs to the reco...
KCNIP3: This gene encodes a member of the family of voltage-gated potassium(Kv) channel-interacting proteins, which belong to the recoverin branch of...
KIF2A: The protein encoded by this gene is a plus end-directed motor required...
KLK1: Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiologicalfunctions. Growing evidence sug...
KLKB1: This gene encodes a glycoprotein that participates in the surface-dependentactivation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, kinin ge...
KYNU: Kynureninase is a pyridoxal-5''-phosphate (pyridoxal-P) dependent enzymethat catalyze...
L3MBTL4: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity and ...
LAMP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of membraneglycoproteins. T...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activit...
LCK: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs).The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and m...
LCP2: This gene encodes an adapter protein that acts as a substrate of theT cell antigen receptor (TCR)-activated prot...
LGALS3: This gene encodes a member of the galectin family of carbohydratebinding proteins. Members of this protein family have an affinity for beta-galactosides.The encoded...
LGMN: This gene encodes a cysteine protease that has a strict specificityfor hydrolysis of asparaginyl bonds. This enzyme may be involved in the processingof bacterial peptides and endo...
LIPA: This gene encodes lipase A, the lysosomal acid lipase (also known ascholesterol es...
LRP1: This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor familyof proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furinto generat...
LTA4H: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that contains both hydrolaseand aminopeptidase activities. Th...
LTF: This gene is a member of the transferrin family of genes and its proteinproduct is found in the secondary granules of neutrophils. The protein isa major iron-binding protein in...
LYN: This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe ...
MAFF: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcriptionfactor that lacks a transactivation domain. It is known to bind ...
ME1: This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPHfor fatty acid bio...
MMP12: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extr...
MMP13: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular...
MMP14: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involvedin the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes,such as embryonic...
MMP15: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family and membrane-typesubfamily of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Proteins in this family...
MMP8: This gene encodes a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) familyof proteins. These proteins are involved in the breakdown of ext...
MSRB1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the methionine-R-sulfoxidereductase B (MsrB) family. Members of this family function as repair enzymesthat protect proteins from oxidative stress by catalyzing the red...
MT3: This gene is a member of the metallothionein family of genes. Proteinsencoded by this gene family are low in molecular weight, are cysteine-rich,lack aromatic re...
NOTCH4: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Membersof this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristicsincluding an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal ...
OLR1: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs tothe C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated throu...
PCLO: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the presynaptic cytoskeletalmatrix,...
PCSK9: This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertasefamily, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursorstrafficking throu...
PDGFB: This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of bothplatelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors(VEGF). The encoded preproprotein...
PDP1: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is one of the three components (E1, E2,and E3) of the large pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenasekinases catalyze phosphorylation of serine residues of E1 to inactivate theE1 component and...
PFN1: This gene encodes a member of the profilin family of small actin-bindingproteins. The encode...
PHEX: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane endopeptidase thatbelongs to the ...
PIK3CA: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is composed of an 85 kDa regulatorysubunit and a 110 kDa...
PIK3CG: Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate inositol lipids andare involved in the immune response. The prot...
PIK3R5: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate the inositolring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position, and play important rolesin cell growth, proliferation, ...
PIM1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoidand mye...
PLA2G4A: This gene encodes a member of the cytosolic phospholipase A2 groupIV family. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids torelease arachidonic...
PLA2G7: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted enzyme that catalyzesthe ...
PLAT: This gene encodes tissue-type plasminogen activator, a secreted serineprotease that converts the proenzyme plasminogen to plasmin, a fibrinolyticenzyme. The encod...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; proteinhomodimerizati...
PLG: The plasminogen protein encoded by this gene is a serine protease thatcirculates in blood plasma as an inactive zymogen and is converted to theactive protease, plasmin, by several plasminogen activators such as tissueplasminogen activator (tPA), urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), kallikrein,and factor XII (Hageman factor). The conversio...
PLSCR1: This gene encodes a phospholipid scramblase family member. The encodedprotein is involved in disruption of the asy...
PPP2CB: This gene encodes the phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit. Protein phosphatase2A is one of the four ...
PPP4C: Enables protein serine/threonine phosphatase activi...
PRCP: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S28 family of serine exopeptidases.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the maturelysosomal prolylcarboxypeptidase. This...
PRDM4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor of the PR-domainprotein family. It contains a PR-...
PREP: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic prolyl endopeptidasethat cl...
PRKCD: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein kinaseC family of serine- and ...
PRSS3: This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin familyof serine proteases. This enz...
PRSS36: Enables serine-type endopeptidase...
PSEN1: Alzheimer''s disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the diseasecarry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloidprecursor protein (APP). Thes...
PSMB9: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha ...
RABIF: This gene encodes a member of the SCE4/YPT1/RAB family of small GTP-b...
RAF1: This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf). The encodedprotein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstreamof the Ras fami...
RASGRP1: This gene is a member of a family of genes characterized by the presenceof a Ras superfamily guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) doma...
RBSN: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the FYVE zinc finger familyof ...
RCE1: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein whic...
RHOG: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, whichcycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states and function...
RNF4: The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger motif and actsas a transcription regulator. This protein has been sh...
S100A12: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedi...
S100A13: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or ...
S100A9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are ...
SCG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretograninfamily of neuroend...
SERPINA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine protease inhibitorbelonging to the serpin superfamily whose targets include...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity...
SERPINC1: The protein encoded by this gene, antithrombin III, is a plasmaprotease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily. This protein inhibitsthrombin as well as other ...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin)superfamily. This member is the pri...
SERPING1: This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involvedin the regulation of the complement ...
SH2B3: This gene encodes a member of the SH2B adaptor family of proteins,which are involved in a range of signaling activi...
SIRT6: This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of NAD-dependent enzymesthat are implicated in cellular str...
SPOCK2: This gene encodes a protein which binds with glycosaminoglycans toform part of the extr...
SRC: This gene is highly similar to the v-src gene of Rous sarcoma virus.This proto-oncogene may play a rol...
STX4: Enables sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase activator activity. Involvedin several processes, includin...
TFPI2: This gene encodes a member of the Kunitz-type serine proteinase inhibitorfamily. The p...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptida...
TIMP2: This gene is a member of the TIMP gene family. The proteins encodedby this gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases,a group ...
TMPRSS6: The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane s...
TNFAIP3: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly inducedby the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The prot...
USP14: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific processing (UBP)family of proteases that is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) with ...
USP15: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin specific protease (USP)family of deubiquitinating enzymes. USP enzymes play critical roles in...
USP16: This gene encodes a deubiquitinating enzyme that is phosphorylatedat the onset of mitosis a...
USP8: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-specific processingprotease family of proteins. The encoded protein is tho...
VCPIP1: Enables thiol-dependent deubiquitinase. Involved in pr...
WAS: The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) family of proteins share similar domainstructure, and are involved in transduction of signals from receptors on thecell surface to the actin cytoskeleton.  The presence of a number of differentmot...
XPNPEP1: This gene encodes the cytosolic form of a metalloaminopeptidase thatcataly...
ZEB1: This gene encodes a zinc finger transcription factor. The encoded proteinlikely play...
ZFPM2: The zinc finger protein encoded by this gene is a widely expressedmember of the FOG family of transcription factors. The f...
////
AK2: Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide compositionwithin a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups amongadenine nucleotides. T...
ANP32E: Enables histone binding activity. Involve...
ASF1A: This gene encodes a member of the H3/H4 family of histone chaperoneproteins and is similar to the anti...
ASF1B: This gene encodes a member of the H3/H4 family of histone chaperoneproteins and is similar to the anti-silenci...
ATAD2: A large family of ATPases has been described, whose key feature isthat they share a conserved region of about 220 amino acids that containsan...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at thespindle pol...
AURKB: This gene encodes a member of the aurora kinase subfamily of serine/threoninekinases. The genes encoding the other two members o...
BARD1: This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the N-terminal regionof BRCA1. In addition to its ability to bind BRCA1 in vivo and in vitro, itshares homology with the 2 most conserved regions of BRCA1: the N-terminalRING motif and the C-te...
BIRC5: This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family,which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death.IAP ...
BRCA1: This gene encodes a 190 kD nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a rolein maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor.The BRCA1 gene contains 22 exons spanning about 110 kb of DNA. The encodedprotein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signaltransducers to form a large multi...
BRCA2: Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increasedlifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the h...
BRMS1L: The protein encoded by this gene shows sequence similarity to thehuman breast carc...
BUB1B: This gene encodes a kinase involved in spindle checkpoint function.The protein has been localized to...
CBX5: This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is amember of the heterochromatin protein family. The protein is enriched in theheterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The prote...
CCNB2: Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-typecyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essenti...
CCNE1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and deg...
CCP110: Involved in centriole replication; negative regulation of ci...
CDC20: CDC20 appears to act as a regulatory protein interacting with severalo...
CDC25A: CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A isrequired for progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. It activatesth...
CDC25B: CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activatesthe cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it isr...
CDCA3: Predicted to be involved in cell divisi...
CDCA8: This gene encodes a component of the chromosomal passenger complex.This complex is an essential regulator o...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conservedprotein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting ...
CDK4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiaecdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the pro...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulatorof cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of th...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which sharesa limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein bindsto and prevent...
CDKN2A: This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in theirfirst exons. At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinctproteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoformsknown to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase. The remaining transcript inclu...
CDKN2C: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family ofcyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interactwith CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of ...
CDKN3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity proteinphosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-depen...
CENPE: Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor proteinthat accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associatedproteins, ...
CENPM: The protein encoded by this gene is an inner protein of the kinetochore,the multi-protein complex that binds spindle microtubules to regulate chromosomesegregation during cell division. It belongs to the co...
CHEK1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in responseto DNA damage or th...
CHEK2: In response to DNA damage and replication blocks, cell cycle progressionis halted through the control of critical cell cycle regulators. The proteinencoded by this gene is a cell cycle checkpoint regulator and putative tumorsuppressor. It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essentialfor activation in...
CIT: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that functions incell division. Together with the kinesin KIF14, this ...
CKS1B: CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and is essential for their biological ...
CKS2: CKS2 protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and i...
CNOT9: This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved RCD1 protein family.The encoded protein is a tran...
CSE1L: Proteins that carry a nuclear localization signal (NLS) are transportedinto the nucleus by the importin-alpha/beta heterodimer. Importin-alpha bindsthe NLS, while importin-beta mediates translocatio...
CTCF: This gene is a member of the BORIS + CTCF gene family and encodes atranscriptional regulator protein with 11 highly conserved zinc finger (ZF)domains. This nuclear protein is able to use different combinations of theZF domains to bind different DNA...
CTPS1: This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the catalytic conversionof UTP (uridine triphosphate) to CTP (cytidine t...
DCK: Deoxycytidine kinase (DCK) is required for the phosphorylation of severaldeoxyribonucleosides and their nucleoside analogs.  Deficien...
DCLRE1B: DNA interstrand cross-links prevent strand separation, thereby physicallyblocki...
DCTPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is dCTP pyrophosphatase, which convertsdCTP to dCMP and inorganic pyrophosphate. The encoded...
DDX39A: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteinsare characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putativeRNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involvingalteration ...
DEK: This gene encodes a protein with one SAP domain. This protein binds tocruciform and superhelical DNA and induces positive supercoils in...
DEPDC1: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Involved in...
DIAPH3: This gene encodes a member of the diaphanous subfamily of the forminfamily. Members of this famil...
DLGAP5: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity. Predicted to beinvolved in several ...
DNMT1: This gene encodes an enzyme that transfers methyl groups to cytosinenucleotides of genomic DNA. This protein is the major enzyme responsible formaintaining methylation patter...
DONSON: This gene lies downstream of the SON ...
DSCC1: CHTF18 (MIM 613201), CHTF8 (MIM 613202), and DSCC1 are components ofan alternativ...
DUT: This gene encodes an essential enzyme of nucleotide metabolism. The encodedprotein forms a ubiquitous, homotetrameric enzyme that hydrolyzes dUTP todUMP and pyrophosphate. This reaction serves two cellular purposes: pr...
E2F8: This gene encodes a member of a family of transcription factors whichregulate the expression of gen...
EED: This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG familymembers form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintainingthe transcriptional re...
EIF2S1: The translation initiation factor EIF2 catalyzes the first regulatedstep of protein synthesis initiation, promoting the binding of the initiatortRNA to 40S ...
ESPL1: Stable cohesion between sister chromatids before anaphase and theirtimely separation during anaphase are critical for chromosome inheritance.In ver...
EXOSC8: This gene encodes a 3''-5'' exoribonuclease that specifically interactswith mRNAs...
EZH2: This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG familymembers form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintainingt...
GINS1: The yeast heterotetrameric GINS complex is made up of Sld5 (GINS4;MIM 610611), Psf1,...
GINS3: This gene encodes a protein subunit of the GINS heterotetrameric complex,wh...
GINS4: The yeast heterotetrameric GINS complex is made up of Sld5, Psf1 (GINS1;MIM 610608), Psf2 (GINS2; MI...
GSPT1: Enables translation release factor activity. Involved in regulationof transl...
H2AX: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B...
H2AZ1: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octa...
HELLS: This gene encodes a lymphoid-specific helicase. Other helicases functionin processes involving DNA strand s...
HMGA1: This gene encodes a chromatin-associated protein involved in the regulationof gene transcription, integration of retroviruses ...
HMGB2: This gene encodes a member of the non-histone chromosomal high mobilitygroup protein family. The proteins of this family are chromatin-associatedand ubiquitously distr...
HMGB3: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing one ormore high mobility group DNA-binding motifs. The encoded...
HMMR: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It isexpressed in breast tissue ...
HNRNPD: This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneousnuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are nucleic acid binding proteinsand they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These pro...
HUS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an evolutionarilyconserved, genotoxin-activated checkpoint complex that is involved in thecell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage. This protein f...
ILF3: This gene encodes a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding protein thatcomplexes with other proteins, dsRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, and mRNAs toregulate gene expression and stabilize mRNAs. This protein (NF90, I...
ING3: The protein encoded by this gene is similar to ING1, a tumor suppressorprotein that can interact with TP53, inhibit cell growth, and induce apoptosis.This protein contai...
IPO7: The importin-alpha/beta complex and the GTPase Ran mediate nuclear importof proteins with a classical nuclear localization signal. The protein encodedby this gene is a member of a class of approximately 20 potential Ran target...
JPT1: Located in nuclear membrane;...
KIF18B: Enables cytoskeletal motor activity and kinesin binding activity.Inv...
KIF22: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like proteinfamily. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular mot...
KIF2C: This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependen...
KIF4A: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin relatedproteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based ...
KPNA2: The import of proteins into the nucleus is a process that involvesat least 2 steps. The first is an energy-independent docking of the proteinto the nuclear envelope and the second is an energy-dependent translocationthrough the nuclear pore complex. Imported pr...
LBR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ERG4/ERG24 family. Itlocalized in the nuclear envelope inner membrane and ancho...
LIG1: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-dependent DNA ligase protein family.The encoded protein functions in DNA replication, r...
LMNB1: This gene encodes one of the two B-type lamin proteins and is a componento...
LUC7L3: This gene encodes a protein with an N-terminal half that containscysteine/histidine motifs and leucine zipper-like repeats, and the C-te...
LYAR: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein bind...
MAD2L1: MAD2L1 is a component of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint thatprevents the...
MCM2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein compl...
MCM3: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM protei...
MCM4: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM proteins isa key component of t...
MCM5: The protein encoded by this gene is structurally very similar to theCDC46 protein from S. cerevisiae, a protein involved in th...
MCM6: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by the MCM proteinsis a key componen...
MCM7: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by t...
MELK: Enables calcium ion binding activity; non-membrane spanning proteintyrosine kinase ac...
MKI67: This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is associated with and ...
MLH1: The protein encoded by this gene can heterodimerize with mismatch repairendonuclease PMS2 to form MutL alpha, part of the DNA mismatch repair system.When MutL alpha is bou...
MMS22L: The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with tonsoku-like,DNA repair protein (TONSL), and this complex recognizes and repairs DNA double...
MRE11: This gene encodes a nuclear protein involved in homologous recombination,telomere length maintenance, and DNA double-strand break repair. By itself,the protein has 3'' to 5'' exonuclease activity and ...
MSH2: This locus is frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer(HNPCC). When cloned, it was di...
MTHFD2: This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzymewith methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofola...
MXD3: This gene encodes a member of the Myc superfamily of basic helix-loop-helixleucine zipper transcriptional regulators. The encoded ...
MYBL2: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the MYB family of transcriptionfactor genes, is a nuclear protein involved in cell cycle progressi...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein thatplays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the r...
NAA38: Involved in negative regulation of apoptotic proce...
NAP1L1: This gene encodes a member of the nucleosome assembly protein (NAP)family. This protein participates i...
NASP: This gene encodes a H1 histone binding protein that is involved in transportinghistones into the nucleus of dividing cells. Multiple isoforms are encoded...
NBN: Mutations in this gene are associated with Nijmegen breakage syndrome,an autosomal recessive chromosomal instability syndrome ch...
NCAPD2: Enables histone binding activity. Involved in mitotic chromosome condensation.Locat...
NME1: This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcriptlevels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) existsas a hexamer composed o...
NOLC1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein-macromolecule...
NOP56: Nop56p is a yeast nucleolar protein that is part of a complex withthe nucleolar proteins Nop58p and fibrillarin. Nop56p is required for assemblyof the 60S ribosomal ...
NUDT21: The protein encoded by this gene is one subunit of a cleavage factorrequired for 3'' RNA cleavage and polyadenylati...
NUP107: This gene encodes a member of the nucleoporin family. The proteinis localized to the nuclear rim and is an es...
NUP153: Nuclear pore complexes regulate the transport of macromolecules betweenthe nucleus and cytoplasm. They are composed of at least 100 different polypeptidesubunits, many of which belong to the nucleop...
NUP205: This gene encodes a nucleoporin, which is a subunit of the nuclearpore complex t...
ORC2: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitsprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryoticcells. Studies in yeast demonstrated that ORC binds specifically to originsof replication and s...
ORC6: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryoticcells. Stu...
PA2G4: This gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that is involved in growthregulation. This protein is present in pre-ribosomal ribonucleoprotein complexesand may be involved in ribosome assembly and the regulation of...
PAICS: This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme containing phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxylase activity in its N-terminal region and phosphoribosylaminoimidazolesuc...
PAN2: This gene encodes a deadenylase that functions as the catalytic subunitof the polyadenylate bi...
PCNA: The protein encoded by this gene is found in the nucleus and is a cofactorof DNA polymerase delta. The encoded protein acts as a homotrimer ...
PDS5B: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the conserved proteincomplex termed cohesin...
PHF5A: This gene encodes a subunit of the splicing factor 3b protein complex.Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, formsthe U2 small nuclear ribonu...
PLK1: The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polosubfamily. It is highl...
PLK4: This gene encodes a member of the polo family of serine/threonine proteinkinases. The protein locali...
PMS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of the mismatchrepair system that functions to correct DNA mismatches and small insertionsand deletions that can occur during DNA replication and homologous recombination.This protein fo...
PNN: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in cell adhesionand mRNA spli...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA re...
POLD1: This gene encodes the 125-kDa catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta.DNA polymerase delta possesse...
POLD2: This gene encodes the 50-kDa catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta.DNA polymerase delta possesses both polymerase and 3'' to 5'' exonucleaseactivity and plays a cr...
POLD3: This gene encodes the 66-kDa subunit of DNA polymerase delta. DNA polymerasedelta possesses both polymerase and 3'' to 5'' exonucleas...
POLE: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon. Theenzyme is...
POLE4: POLE4 is a histone-fold protein that interacts with other histone-foldpr...
POP7: Enables ribonuclease P RNA binding activity. Contributes to ribonucle...
PPM1D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family ofSer/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negativeregulators of cell stress response pathways. The expression of this gene isinduced in a p53-dependent manner in respon...
PPP1R8: This gene, through alternative splicing, encodes three different isoforms.Two of the protein isoforms encoded by this gene are spec...
PRDX4: The protein encoded by this gene is an antioxidant enzyme and belongsto the peroxiredoxin family. The protein is localized t...
PRIM2: This gene encodes the 58 kilodalton subunit of DNA primase, an enzymethat plays a key role in the replication of DNA. The encoded protein f...
PRKDC: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the DNA-dependent proteinkina...
PRPS1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the phosphoribosylationof ribose 5-phosphate to 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphat...
PSIP1: Enables DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity; chromatinbinding activity; and ...
PSMC3IP: This gene encodes a protein that functions in meiotic recombination.It is a subunit of the PSMC3IP/MND1 complex, which interacts with PSMC3/TBP1...
PTTG1: The encoded protein is a homolog of yeast securin proteins, which preventseparins from promoting sister chromatid separation. It is an anaphase-promotingcomplex (APC) substrate that associates with a separin until activation ofthe APC. The gene p...
RACGAP1: This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a compomentof the centralspindlin complex. This protein binds activ...
RAD1: This gene encodes a component of a heterotrimeric cell cycle checkpointcomplex, known as the 9-1-1 complex, that is act...
RAD21: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene productof Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad21, a gene involved in the repair...
RAD50: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad50, a protein involved in DNA double-strand break repair. Thisprotein forms a complex with MRE11 and NB...
RAD51AP1: Enables nucleic acid binding activity. Involved in DNA repair; cellular...
RAD51C: This gene is a member of the RAD51 family. RAD51 family members arehighly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51 and areknown to be involved in the homologous recombinatio...
RAN: RAN (ras-related nuclear protein) is a small GTP binding protein belongingto the RAS superfamily that is essential for the translocation of RNA andproteins through the nuclear pore complex. The RAN protein is also involvedin control of DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression. Nuclear localizationof RAN requires the presence of regulator of chromosome c...
RANBP1: This gene encodes a protein that forms a complex with Ras-relatednuclear protein (Ran) and metabolizes guanoside t...
RBBP7: This protein is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein and belongsto a highly conserved subfamily of WD-repeat proteins. It is found among severalproteins that binds direct...
RFC1: This gene encodes the large subunit of replication factor C, a fivesubunit DNA polymerase accessory protein, which is a DNA-dependent ...
RFC2: This gene encodes a member of the activator 1 small subunits family.The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and epsilonrequires the action of the accessory proteins, pro...
RFC3: The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and DNApolymerase epsilon requires the accessory proteins proliferating cell nuclearantigen (PCNA...
RNASEH2A: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the heterotrimerictype II ribonuclease H enzyme (RNAseH2). RNAseH2 is the major source of ribonucleaseH activity in mammalian cells a...
RPA1: This gene encodes the largest subunit of the heterotrimeric ReplicationProtein A (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forminga nucleoprotein complex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, beinginvolved in DNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance,and co-ordinatin...
RPA2: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotrimeric Replication ProteinA (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forming a nucleoproteincomplex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, being involved inDNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance, and co-ordinatingthe cellular response t...
RPA3: Enables damaged DNA binding activity and single-stranded...
RRM2: This gene encodes one of two non-identical subunits for ribonucleotidereductase. This reductase catalyzes the formation of deoxy...
SHMT1: This gene encodes the cytosolic form of serine hydroxymethyltransferase,a pyridoxal phosphate-containing enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion...
SLBP: This gene encodes a protein that binds to the stem-loop structure inreplication-dependent histone mRNAs. Histone mRNAs do not contain in...
SMC1A: Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correctsegregation of chromosomes during cell division. The cohesin multiproteincomplex is required for sister chromatid cohesion. This complex is composedpartly of two structural maintenance of chr...
SMC3: This gene belongs to the SMC3 subfamily of SMC proteins. The encodedprotein occurs in certain cell types as either an intracellular, nuclear proteinor a sec...
SMC4: This gene belongs to the ''structural maintenance of chromosomes'' (SMC)gene family. Members of this gene family play a role in...
SMC6: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involved in severalprocesses, in...
SNRPB: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several nuclear proteinsthat are found in common among U1, U2, U4/U6, and U5 small ribonucleoprot...
SPAG5: This gene encodes a protein associated with the mitot...
SPC24: Predicted to be involved in cell divisio...
SPC25: This gene encodes a protein that may be...
SRSF1: This gene encodes a member of the arginine/serine-rich splicing factorprotein family. The enc...
SRSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/arginine(SR)-rich family of pre-mRNA splicing factors, which constitute part of thespliceosome. Each of these factors contains an RNA recognit...
SSRP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a heterodimer that,along with SUPT16H, forms chromatin transcriptional elongation factor FACT.FACT interacts specifically with histones H2A...
STAG1: This gene is a member of the SCC3 family and is expressed in the nucleus.It encodes a component o...
STMN1: This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitouscytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intra...
SUV39H1: This gene encodes an evolutionarily-conserved protein containingan N-terminal chromodomain and a C-terminal SET domain....
SYNCRIP: This gene encodes a member of the cellular heterogeneous nuclearribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) family. hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins that complexwith heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) an...
TACC3: This gene encodes a member of the transforming acidic colied-coil proteinfamily...
TBRG4: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in mitochondri...
TCF19: This gene encodes a protein that contains a PHD-type zinc finger domainand li...
TFRC: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor necessary for cellular ironuptake...
TIMELESS: The protein encoded by this gene is highly conserved and is involvedin cell survival after damage or stress, increase in DNA polymerase epsilonacti...
TIPIN: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the replisome complex,a group of proteins that suppor...
TK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzesthe addition of a gamma-phosphate group to thymidine. This creates d...
TMPO: Through alternative splicing, this gene encodes several distinct LEMdomain containing protein isoforms. LEM domain proteins include inner nuclearmembrane and intranuclear protei...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls andalters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzymeis involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation,and the relief of torsional st...
TP53: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptionalactivation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded proteinresponds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expres...
TRA2B: This gene encodes a nuclear protein which functions as sequence-specific...
TRIP13: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with thyroid hormone receptors,also know...
TUBB: This gene encodes a beta tubulin protein. This protein forms a dimerwith alpha tubulin and acts as a str...
TUBG1: This gene encodes a member of the tubulin superfamily. The encodedprotein localizes to the centrosome whe...
UBE2S: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.Th...
UBE2T: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the covalent attachmentof ubiquitin ...
UBR7: This gene encodes a UBR box-containing protein that belongs to the E3ubiquitin ligase family. The p...
UNG: This gene encodes one of several uracil-DNA glycosylases. One importantfunction of uracil-DNA glycosylases is to prevent mutagenesis by eliminatinguracil from DNA molecules...
USP1: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific processing (UBP)family of proteases that is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DU...
WDR90: Involved in cilium assembly...
WEE1: This gene encodes a nuclear protein, which is a tyrosine kinase belongingto the Ser/Thr family of ...
XPO1: This cell-cycle-regulated gene encodes a protein that mediates leucine-richnuclear export signal (NES)-depe...
XRCC6: The p70/p80 autoantigen is a nuclear complex consisting of two subunitswith molecular masses of approximately 70 and 80 kDa. The comp...
ZW10: This gene encodes a protein that is one of many involved in mechanismsto ...
////
ABI3BP: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity and glycosaminoglycanbinding activity. Predicted to be inv...
ACTA2: This gene encodes one of six different actin proteins. Actins are highlyconserved proteins that are involved in ...
ADAM12: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are structurallyrelated to snake venom disintegrins and have be...
ANPEP: Aminopeptidase N is located in the small-intestinal and renal microvillarmembrane, and also in other plasma membranes. In the small intestine aminopeptidaseN plays a role in the final digestion of peptides generated from hydrolysisof proteins by gastric ...
APLP1: This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved amyloid precursorprotein gene family. The encoded protein is a mem...
AREG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the epidermal growthfactor family. It is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes,S...
BASP1: This gene encodes a membrane bound protein with several transient phosphorylationsites and PEST motifs. Conse...
BDNF: This gene encodes a member of the nerve growth factor family of proteins.Alternative splicing results in multiple transc...
BGN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is prot...
BMP1: This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation ofcartilage in vivo. A...
CADM1: Enables signaling receptor binding activity. Involved in several processes,inclu...
CALD1: This gene encodes a calmodulin- and actin-binding protein that playsan essential role in the regulation of smooth muscle and ...
CALU: The product of this gene is a calcium-binding protein localized in theendoplasmic reticulu...
CAP2: This gene was identified by its similarity to the gene for hum...
CAPG: This gene encodes a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin-regulatoryproteins. The encoded protei...
CCN1: The secreted protein encoded by this gene is growth factor-inducibleand prom...
CCN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen that is secreted by vascularendoth...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involvedin cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor forhyaluronic acid (HA...
CD59: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that regulates complement-mediatedcell lysis, and it is involved in lymphocyte signal transduction. This proteinis a poten...
CDH11: This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily,integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-...
CDH2: This gene encodes a classical cadherin and member of the cadherin superfamily.Alternative splici...
CDH6: This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. Cadherins aremembrane glycoproteins t...
COL11A1: This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type XI collagen,a minor fibrillar collagen. Type XI colla...
COL12A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XII collagen, a memberof the FACIT (fibril-associated c...
COL16A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVI collagen, a memberof the FACIT collagen family (fib...
COL1A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type I collagen whose triplehelix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-formingcollagen found in most connect...
COL1A2: This gene encodes the pro-alpha2 chain of type I collagen whose triplehelix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-formingcollagen found in most...
COL3A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillarcollagen...
COL4A1: This gene encodes a type IV collagen alpha protein. Type IV collagenproteins are integral components of basement membranes. This gene shares abidirectional promoter with a paralogous ge...
COL4A2: This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, themajor structural component o...
COL5A1: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha c...
COL5A2: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be c...
COL5A3: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha c...
COL6A2: This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen,a beaded filament collagen found in most connective ti...
COL6A3: This gene encodes the alpha-3 chain, one of the three alpha chainsof type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues.The alpha-3 chain of type VI collagen is much larger than the alpha-1 and-2 chains. This d...
COL7A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type VII collagen. The type VIIcollagen fibril, composed of three identical alp...
COL8A2: This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain of type VIII collagen. This proteinis a major componen...
COLGALT1: The protein encoded by this gene is one of two enzymes that tr...
COMP: The protein encoded by this gene is a noncollagenous extracellular matrix(ECM) protein. It consists of five identical...
COPA: In eukaryotic cells, protein transport between the endoplasmic reticulumand Golgi compartments is mediated in part by non-clathrin-coated vesicularcoat proteins (COPs...
CRLF1: This gene encodes a member of the cytokine type I receptor family.The protein f...
CTHRC1: This locus encodes a protein that may play a role in the cellularres...
CXCL1: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines.The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that s...
CXCL12: This antimicrobial gene encodes a stromal cell-derived alpha chemokinemember of the intercrine family. The encoded protein funct...
CXCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member CXC chemokine family.The en...
CXCL8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CXC chemokine familyand is a major mediator of the inflammatory response. The encoded proteinis commonly referred to as interleukin-8 (IL-8). IL-8 is secreted by mononuclearmacrophages, neutrophils, eosinophils, T lymphocytes, epithelial cells, andfibroblasts. It functions as a...
DAB2: This gene encodes a mitogen-responsive phosphoprotein. It is expressedin normal ovarian epithelial cells, but is down-regulated or ab...
DCN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants,at least o...
DKK1: This gene encodes a member of the dickkopf family of proteins. Membersof this family are secreted proteins characterized ...
DPYSL3: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to be involved in severalprocesses, including actin filament organization;...
DST: This gene encodes a member of the plakin protein family of adhesion junctionplaque proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript varian...
ECM1: This gene encodes a soluble protein that is involved in endochondralbone formation, angiogenesis, and tumor biology. It also inte...
ECM2: ECM2 encodes extracellular matrix protein 2, so name...
EDIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is an integrin liga...
EFEMP2: A large number of extracellular matrix proteins have been found tocontain variations of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) domain and h...
ELN: This gene encodes a protein that is one of the two components of elasticfibers. Elastic fibers comprise part of the extracellular matrix and conferelasticity to organs and tissu...
EMP3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 familyof prot...
ENO2: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in...
FAP: The protein encoded by this gene is a homodimeric integral membrane gelatinasebelonging to the serine protease family. It is s...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a centralrole in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has beenimplic...
FBLN1: Fibulin 1 is a secreted glycoprotein that becomes incorporated intoa fibrillar extracellular ma...
FBLN2: This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein, which belongs tothe fibulin fami...
FBLN5: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted, extracellular matrixprotein containing an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) motif and calcium-binding EGF-likedomains. It promotes a...
FBN1: This gene encodes a member of the fibrillin family of proteins. Theencoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate two proteinsincluding the extracellular ...
FBN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a component...
FERMT2: Enables several functions, including actin binding activity; phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphatebinding activity; and type I transforming growt...
FGF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growthfactor (FGF) family. FGF family members bind heparin and possess broad mitogenicand angiogeni...
FLNA: The protein encoded by this gene is an actin-binding protein that crosslinksactin filaments and links actin filaments to membrane glycoproteins. The encodedpr...
FMOD: Fibromodulin belongs to the family of small interstitial proteoglycans.The encoded protein possesses a central region containing leucine-rich repe...
FN1: This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimericform in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface and...
FOXC2: This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription fact...
FSTL1: This gene encodes a protein with similarity to follistatin, an ...
FSTL3: Follistatin-like 3 is a secreted...
FUCA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme involved inthe...
FZD8: This intronless gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Membersof this family encode seven-transmembrane domain p...
GADD45A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest ...
GADD45B: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment withDNA-...
GAS1: Growth arrest-specific 1 plays a role in grow...
GEM: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the RAD/GEM family of GTP-bindingpr...
GJA1: This gene is a member of the connexin gene family. The encoded proteinis a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of interce...
GLIPR1: This gene encodes a protein with similarity to both the pathogenesis-relatedprotein (PR) superfamily and the cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRI...
GPC1: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core s...
GPX7: Enables catalase activity. Predicted ...
GREM1: This gene encodes a member of the BMP (bone morphogenic protein) antagonistfamily. Like BMPs, BMP antagonists contain cystine knots and typically formhomo- and heterodimers. The CAN (c...
HTRA1: This gene encodes a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases.This protein is a sec...
ID2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inhibitor of DNA bindingfamily, members of which are transcriptional reg...
IGFBP2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of six similar proteins thatbind insulin-like growth factors I and II (IGF-I and IGF-II). T...
IGFBP3: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFB...
IGFBP4: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and enco...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T andnatural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine2 share many biological activities. They are...
IL32: This gene encodes a member of the cytokine family. The protein containsa tyrosine sulfation site, 3 potential ...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen ...
INHBA: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of proteins. The encoded ...
ITGA2: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of a transmembrane receptor forcollagens and related proteins. The encoded protein forms ...
ITGA5: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphas...
ITGAV: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphasubunit and a beta...
ITGB1: Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits.At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have...
ITGB3: The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrinsare integral cell-s...
ITGB5: This gene encodes a beta subunit of integrin, which can combine withdiffe...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17.It encodes a ...
LAMA1: This gene encodes one of the alpha 1 subunits of laminin. The lamininsare a family of extracellular matrix glyco...
LAMA2: Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basementmembrane. It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organizationof ce...
LAMA3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the laminin family of secretedmolecules. Laminins are heterotrimeric molecules that consist of alpha, beta,and gamma subunits that...
LAMC1: Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the majornoncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicatedin a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation,migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composedof 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1,and B2, respectively), have a crucif...
LAMC2: Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the majornoncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicatedin a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation,migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composedof 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1,and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms,each formed by a different chain, and a long arm compose...
LGALS1: The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding...
LOX: This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase family of proteins. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript var...
LOXL1: This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase family of proteins.The prototypic member of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connectivetissue, encoding an extracell...
LOXL2: This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase gene family. The prototypicmember of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connective tis...
LRP1: This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor familyof proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furinto generat...
LRRC15: Enables collagen binding activity; fibronectin binding activity; andlaminin binding ...
LUM: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family that includes decorin, biglycan, fibromodulin, keratocan,...
MAGEE1: This gene encodes an alpha-dystrobrevin-associated MAGE (melanoma-associatedantigen) protein, which is a memb...
MATN2: This gene encodes a member of the von Willebrand factor A domain containingprotein family. This f...
MATN3: This gene encodes a member of von Willebrand factor A domain containingprotein family. This family of pro...
MCM7: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replicatio...
MEST: This gene encodes a member of the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily.It is imprinted, exhibiting preferential expression from the pate...
MFAP5: This gene encodes a 25-kD microfibril-associated glycoprotein whichis a component ...
MGP: This gene encodes a member of the osteocalcin/matrix Gla family of proteins.The encoded vitamin K-dependent protein is secreted by chondrocy...
MMP1: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M10 family of matrix metalloproteinases(MMPs). Proteins in this family are involved in the breakdown of extracellularmatrix in nor...
MMP14: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involvedin the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes,such as embryonic...
MMP2: This gene is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family,that are zinc-dependent enzymes capable of cleaving components of the extracellularmatrix and molecules involved in signal transduction. The protein encoded...
MMP3: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved inthe breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, suchas em...
MSX1: This gene encodes a member of the muscle segment homeobox gene family.The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor ...
MXRA5: This gene encodes one of the matrix-remodelling asso...
MYL9: Myosin, a structural component of muscle, consists of two heavy chainsand four light chai...
MYLK: This gene, a muscle member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, encodesmyosin light chain kinase which is a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme.This kinase phosphorylates myosin regulatory light chain...
NID2: This gene encodes a member of the nidogen family of bas...
NNMT: N-methylation is one method by which drug and other x...
NOTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics includingan extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like(EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain c...
NT5E: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that catalyzesthe conver...
NTM: This gene encodes a member of the IgLON (LAMP, OBCAM, Ntm) family ofimmunoglobulin (Ig) domain-containing g...
OXTR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor...
P3H1: This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the collagen prolylhydroxylase family. These enzymes are ...
PCOLCE: Fibrillar collagen types I-III are synthesized as precursor moleculesknown as procollagens. These precurs...
PCOLCE2: Enables collagen binding activity; heparin binding activity; andpeptidase...
PDGFRB: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface tyrosine kinasereceptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growthfactors are mitogens for cells of mesench...
PDLIM4: This gene encodes a protein which ma...
PFN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitous actin monomer-binding...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to...
PLOD1: Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localizedto the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme...
PLOD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzymethat is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Theen...
PLOD3: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzymethat is localized to the cisternae of the...
PMEPA1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a Smad interactingmotif (SIM). Expression of this gene...
PMP22: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a major componentof myelin in the periph...
POSTN: This gene encodes a secreted extracellular matrix protein that functionsin tissue development and regeneration, includi...
PPIB: The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclosporine-binding protein andis mainly located within t...
PRRX1: The DNA-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of thepaired family of homeobox proteins localized to the ...
PRSS2: This gene belongs to the trypsin family of serine proteases and encodesanionic trypsinogen. It is part of a cluster of trypsinogen genes that arelocated within the T cell ...
PTHLH: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the parathyroid hormonefamily. This hormone, via its receptor, PTHR1, regulates endochondral bo...
PTX3: This gene encodes a member of the pentraxin protein family. The expressionof this protein is induced by inflammato...
PVR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein belongingto the immunoglobulin superfamily. The ...
QSOX1: This gene encodes a protein that contains domains of thioredoxin andERV1, members of ...
RGS4: Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family members are regulatorymolecules that act as GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) for G alpha subunitsof heterotrimeric G prote...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and proteinkinase bi...
SAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family,and is a rate-limiting enzyme in ...
SCG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretograninfamily of neuroendocrine s...
SDC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.The syndecans mediate cell bin...
SDC4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin)superfamily. This member is the pri...
SERPINE2: This gene encodes a member of the serpin family of proteins, a groupof proteins tha...
SERPINH1: This gene encodes a member of the serpin superfamily of serine proteinaseinhibitors. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticu...
SFRP1: This gene encodes a member of the SFRP family that contains a cysteine-richdomain homologous to...
SFRP4: Secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (SFRP4) is a member of the SFRPfamily ...
SGCB: This gene encodes a member of the sarcoglycan family. Sarcoglycans aretra...
SGCD: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the four known componentsof the sarcoglycan complex, which is a subcomplex of...
SGCG: This gene encodes gamma-sarcoglycan, one of several sarcolemmal transmembraneglycoproteins that interact with dystrophin. ...
SLC6A8: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein whos...
SLIT2: This gene encodes a member of the slit family of secreted glycoproteins,which are ligands for the Robo family of immunoglobulin receptors. Slit proteinsplay highly conserved roles in axon guidance and neu...
SLIT3: The protein encoded by this gene is secreted, lik...
SNAI2: This gene encodes a member of the Snail family of C2H2-type zinc fingertranscription factors. Th...
SNTB1: Dystrophin is a large, rod-like cytoskeletal protein found at the innersurface of muscle fibers. Dystroph...
SPARC: This gene encodes a cysteine-rich acidic matrix-associated protein.The encoded protein is required for the col...
SPOCK1: This gene encodes the protein core of a seminal plasma proteoglyc...
SPP1: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the attachment of osteoclaststo the mineralized bone matrix....
TAGLN: This gene encodes a shape change and transformation sensitive actin-bindingprotein which belongs to the calponin family. It is ubiquitously expressedin vascular and visceral smooth muscle, ...
TFPI2: This gene encodes a member of the Kunitz-type serine proteinase inhibitorfamily. The p...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD fami...
TGFBI: This gene encodes an RGD-containing protein that binds to type I, IIand IV collagens. The RGD motif is found in many ...
TGFBR3: This locus encodes the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta typeIII receptor. The encoded receptor is a ...
TGM2: Transglutaminases are enzymes that catalyze the crosslinking of proteinsby epsilon-gamma glutamyl lysine isopeptide bonds. Whi...
THBS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a disulfide-linkedhomotrimeric protein....
THBS2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the thrombospondin family.It is a disulfide-linked homo...
THY1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein and member of the immunoglobulinsuperfamily of proteins. T...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptida...
TIMP3: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are inhibitors of ...
TNC: This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein with a spatially andtemporally res...
TNFAIP3: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly inducedby the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The prot...
TNFRSF11B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This protein is an osteoblast-secreted decoy receptor th...
TNFRSF12A: Involved in positive regulation of extrinsic apoptoti...
TPM1: This gene is a member of the tropomyosin family of highly conserved,widely distributed actin-binding proteins involved in the contractile systemof striated and smooth muscles and the cytoskeleton of ...
TPM2: This gene encodes beta-tropomyosin, a member of the actin filament bindingprotein family, a...
TPM4: This gene encodes a member of the tropomyosin family of actin-bindingproteins involved in the contractile system of striated and smo...
VCAM1: This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surfacesialoglycoprotein expre...
VCAN: This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family.The protein encoded is a large chondroitin ...
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodesa heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Thisgrowth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelialcells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis.Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vesselformation...
VEGFC: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derivedgrowth factor/vas...
VIM: This gene encodes a type III intermediate filament protein. Intermediatefilaments, along with microtubules and actin microfilaments, make up the c...
WIPF1: This gene encodes a protein that plays an important role in the organizationof the actin cytoskel...
WNT5A: The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encodesecreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesisand in several de...
////
ABL1: This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinaseinvolved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion,differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negativelyregul...
AMD1: This gene encodes an important intermediate enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis.The polyamines spermine, sp...
ARID4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitously expressed nuclearprotein. It binds directly, with several other proteins, to retinoblastomaprotein (pRB) which reg...
ATF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase ...
ATRX: The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain,and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins.This protein is found to undergo cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation, whichregul...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at thespindle pol...
AURKB: This gene encodes a member of the aurora kinase subfamily of serine/threoninekinases. The genes encoding the other two members o...
BARD1: This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the N-terminal regionof BRCA1. In addition to its ability to bind BRCA1 in vivo and in vitro, itshares homology with the 2 most conserved regions of BRCA1: the N-terminalRING motif and the C-te...
BCL3: This gene is a proto-oncogene candidate. It is identified by its translocationinto the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some cases of B-cell leukemia. Thepro...
BIRC5: This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family,which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death.IAP ...
BRCA2: Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increasedlifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the h...
BUB1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a centralrole in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylatingmem...
BUB3: This gene encodes a protein involved in spindle checkpoint function.The encode...
CASP8AP2: This protein is highly similar to FLASH, a mouse apoptotic proteinidentified by its interaction with the death-effector domain (DE...
CBX1: This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is amember of the heterochromatin protein family . The protein is enriched inthe heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The pro...
CCNA2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin...
CCNB2: Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-typecyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essenti...
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of...
CCNF: This gene encodes a member of the cyclin family. Cyclins are importantregulators of cell cycle transitions through their ability to bind and activatecyclin-dependent protein kinases. This member also belongs to the F-box protein...
CCNT1: This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved cyclin C subfamily.The encoded protein tightly associates with cyclin-dependent kinase 9, andis a major subunit of positive transcription elongation factor b (p-TEFb).In humans, there are multiple f...
CDC20: CDC20 appears to act as a regulatory protein interacting with severalo...
CDC25A: CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A isrequired for progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. It activatesth...
CDC25B: CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activatesthe cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it isr...
CDC27: The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomycescerevisiae protein Cdc27, and the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombenuc 2. This protein is a component of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC),which is composed of eight ...
CDC45: The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its strong similaritywith Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc45, an essential protein required to theinitiation of DNA replication. Cdc45 i...
CDC6: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomycescerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication.This protein function...
CDC7: This gene encodes a cell division cycle protein with kinase activitythat is critical for the G1/S transition. The...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conservedprotein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting ...
CDK4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiaecdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the pro...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which sharesa limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein bindsto and prevent...
CDKN2C: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family ofcyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interactwith CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of ...
CDKN3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity proteinphosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-depen...
CENPA: Centromeres are the differentiated chromosomal domains that specifythe mitotic behavior of chromosomes. This gene encodes a centromere proteinwhich contains a histone H3 related h...
CENPE: Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor proteinthat accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associatedproteins, ...
CENPF: This gene encodes a protein that associates with the centromere-kinetochorecomplex. The protein is a component of the nuclear matrix during the G2 phaseof interphase. In late G2 the protein ...
CHAF1A: Chromatin assembly factor I (CAF1) is a nuclear complex consisting...
CHEK1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in responseto DNA damage or th...
CHMP1A: This gene encodes a member of the CHMP/Chmp family of proteins whichare involved in multivesicular body sorting of proteins to the...
CKS1B: CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and is essential for their biological ...
CKS2: CKS2 protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and i...
CTCF: This gene is a member of the BORIS + CTCF gene family and encodes atranscriptional regulator protein with 11 highly conserved zinc finger (ZF)domains. This nuclear protein is able to use different combinations of theZF domains to bind different DNA...
CUL1: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity and ubiquitin-proteintransferase acti...
CUL3: This gene encodes a member of the cullin protein family. The encodedprotein plays a critical role in the polyubiquitination and subsequent degra...
CUL4A: CUL4A is the ubiquitin ligase component of a mult...
CUL5: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-d...
DBF4: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity.P...
DDX39A: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteinsare characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putativeRNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involvingalteration ...
DKC1: This gene functions in two distinct complexes. It plays an active rolein telomerase stabilization and maintenance, as well as recognition of snoRNAscontainin...
DMD: This gene spans a genomic range of greater than 2 Mb and encodes a largeprotein containing an N-terminal actin-binding domain and multiple spectrinrepeats. The enco...
DR1: This gene encodes a TBP- (TATA box-binding protein) associated phosphoproteinthat represses both basal and activated levels of transcription. The encodedprotein is phosphorylated in...
DTYMK: Enables thymidylate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in dTDPbiosynthetic process; dTTP biosynthetic process; and ...
E2F1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DNA tumor...
E2F2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DN...
E2F3: This gene encodes a member of a small family of transcription factorsthat function through binding of DP interaction partner proteins. The encodedpr...
E2F4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DNA tumor virus...
EFNA5: Ephrin-A5, a member of the ephrin gene family, prevents axon bundlingin cocultures of cortical neurons with astrocytes, a model of late stage nervoussystem development and differentiation. The EPH and EPH-related receptorscomprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine ki...
EGF: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor superfamily.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the 53-aminoacid epidermal growth factor peptide. This protein ac...
ESPL1: Stable cohesion between sister chromatids before anaphase and theirtimely separation during anaphase are critical for chromosome inheritance.In ver...
EWSR1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that is involved in variouscellular processes, including gene expression, cell signaling, and RNA processingand transport. The protein includes an N-terminal transcriptional activationdomain and a C-termina...
EXO1: This gene encodes a protein with 5'' to 3'' exonuclease activity aswell as an RNase H activity. It ...
EZH2: This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG familymembers form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintainingt...
FANCC: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM an...
FBXO5: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called...
FOXN3: This gene is a member of the forkhead/winged helix transcription factorfamily. Checkpoints are eukaryotic DNA d...
G3BP1: This gene encodes one of the DNA-unwinding enzymes which prefers partiallyunwound 3''-tailed substrates and can also unwind partial RNA/DNA and RNA/RNAduplexes...
GINS2: The yeast heterotetrameric GINS complex is made up of Sld5 (GINS4;MIM 610611), Psf1 (GINS1; MIM 610...
GSPT1: Enables translation release factor activity. Involved in regulationof transl...
H2AX: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B...
H2AZ1: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octa...
H2AZ2: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA...
H2BC12: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer,...
HIF1A: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-induciblefactor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit.HIF-1 functions as a master regula...
HIRA: This gene encodes a histone chaperone that preferentially places thevariant histone H3.3 in nucleosomes. Orthologs of this gene in yeast, flies,and plants are necessar...
HMGA1: This gene encodes a chromatin-associated protein involved in the regulationof gene transcription, integration of retroviruses ...
HMGB3: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing one ormore high mobility group DNA-binding motifs. The encoded...
HMGN2: The protein encoded by this gene binds nucleosomal DNA and is associatedwith transcriptionally act...
HMMR: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It isexpressed in breast tissue ...
HNRNPD: This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneousnuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are nucleic acid binding proteinsand they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These pro...
HNRNPU: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that bind nucleicacids and function in the formation of ribonucleoprotein ...
HOXC10: This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genesencode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an importantrole in morphoge...
HSPA8: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family, whichcontains both heat-inducible and constitutively expressed members. This proteinbelongs...
HUS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an evolutionarilyconserved, genotoxin-activated checkpoint complex that is involved in thecell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage. This protein f...
ILF3: This gene encodes a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding protein thatcomplexes with other proteins, dsRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, and mRNAs toregulate gene expression and stabilize mRNAs. This protein (NF90, I...
INCENP: In mammalian cells, 2 broad groups of centromere-interacting proteinshave been described: constitutively binding centromere proteins and ''passenger,''or transiently interacting, proteins (reviewed by Choo, 1997). The constitutiveproteins include CENPA (centromere protein A; MIM 117139), CENPB (MIM 117140),CENPC1 (MIM ...
JPT1: Located in nuclear membrane;...
KATNA1: Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form themitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize membranous organellesduring interphase...
KIF11: This gene encodes a motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-likeprotein family. Members o...
KIF15: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity and mi...
KIF20B: Enables several functions, including WW domain binding activity; plus-end-directedmicrotubule motor activi...
KIF22: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like proteinfamily. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular mot...
KIF23: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of kinesin-like proteinfamily. This family includes microtubule-dep...
KIF2C: This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependen...
KIF4A: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin relatedproteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based ...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activ...
KMT5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a protein-lysine N-methyltransferasethat ...
KNL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multiproteinassembly that is required for creation of kinetochore-microtubule attachmentsand chromosome segregation. The encoded protein functions as a scaffold forproteins that influence the spindle assem...
KPNA2: The import of proteins into the nucleus is a process that involvesat least 2 steps. The first is an energy-independent docking of the proteinto the nuclear envelope and the second is an energy-dependent translocationthrough the nuclear pore complex. Imported pr...
KPNB1: Nucleocytoplasmic transport, a signal- and energy-dependent process,takes place through nuclear pore complexes embedded in the nuclear envelope.The import of proteins containing a nuclear localization signal (NLS) requiresthe NLS import receptor, a heterodimer of importin alp...
LBR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ERG4/ERG24 family. Itlocalized in the nuclear envelope inner membrane and ancho...
LIG3: This gene is a member of the DNA ligase family. Each member of thisfamily encodes a protein that catalyzes the joining of DNA ends but they eachhave a distinct role i...
LMNB1: This gene encodes one of the two B-type lamin proteins and is a componento...
MAD2L1: MAD2L1 is a component of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint thatprevents the...
MAP3K20: This gene is a member of the MAPKKK family of signal transductionmolecules and encodes a protein with an N-terminal kinase catalytic domain,followed by a leucine ...
MAPK14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family.MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals,and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation,differentiation, transcript...
MARCKS: The protein encoded by this gene is a substrate for protein kinaseC. It is localized to the plasma membrane and is an acti...
MCM2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein compl...
MCM3: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM protei...
MCM5: The protein encoded by this gene is structurally very similar to theCDC46 protein from S. cerevisiae, a protein involved in th...
MCM6: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by the MCM proteinsis a key componen...
MEIS1: Homeobox genes, of which the most well-characterized category is representedby the HOX genes, p...
MEIS2: This gene encodes a homeobox protein belonging to the TALE (''threeamino acid loop extension'') family of homeo...
MKI67: This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is associated with and ...
MNAT1: The protein encoded by this gene, along with cyclin H and CDK7, formsthe CDK-activating kinase (...
MT2A: This gene is a member of the metallothionein family of genes. Proteinsencoded by this gene family are low in molecular weight, are cysteine-rich,lack aromatic residues, and bind divalent heavy metal ...
MTF2: Enables methylated histone binding activity and transcription corepressorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in s...
MYBL2: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the MYB family of transcriptionfactor genes, is a nuclear protein involved in cell cycle progressi...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein thatplays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the r...
NASP: This gene encodes a H1 histone binding protein that is involved in transportinghistones into the nucleus of dividing cells. Multiple isoforms are encoded...
NCL: Nucleolin (NCL), a eukaryotic nucleolar phosphoprotein, is involved inthe synthesis and matura...
NDC80: This gene encodes a component of the NDC80 kinetochore complex. Theencoded protein consists of an N-te...
NEK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involvedin mitotic regulation. This protein is lo...
NOLC1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein-macromolecule...
NOTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics includingan extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like(EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, differentdomain types. Notch family membe...
NSD2: This gene encodes a protein that contains four domains present in otherdevelopmental proteins: a PWWP domain, an HMG box, a SET domain, and a PHD-typezinc finger. It is expressed ubiquitously in ea...
NUMA1: This gene encodes a large protein that forms a structural componentof the nuclear matrix. The encoded protein interacts with micro...
NUP50: The nuclear pore complex is a massive structure that extends acrossthe nuclear envelope, forming a gateway that regulates the flow of macromoleculesbetween the nuc...
NUP98: Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) regulate the transport of macromoleculesbetween the nucleus and cytoplasm, and are composed of many polypeptide subunits,many of which belong to the nucleoporin family. This gene belongs to the nucleoporingene family and encodes a 186 kDa precursor protein that undergoes autoproteol...
NUSAP1: NUSAP1 is a nucleolar-spindle-associated prot...
ODC1: This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesispathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for thee...
ODF2: The outer dense fibers are cytoskeletal structures that surround theaxoneme in the middle piece and principal piece of the sperm tail. The fibersfunction in maintaining the elastic structure and recoil of...
ORC5: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication i...
ORC6: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryoticcells. Stu...
PAFAH1B1: This locus was identified as encoding a gene that when mutated orlost caused the lissencephaly associated with Miller-Dieker lissencephalysyndrome. This gene encodes the non-catalytic alpha ...
PBK: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase related to the dualspecific mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) family. Evide...
PDS5B: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the conserved proteincomplex termed cohesin...
PLK1: The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polosubfamily. It is highl...
PLK4: This gene encodes a member of the polo family of serine/threonine proteinkinases. The protein locali...
PML: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. This phosphopro...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA re...
POLE: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon. Theenzyme is...
POLQ: Enables catalytic activity, acting on DNA; chromatin binding activity;and identical protein...
PRC1: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in cytokinesis. The proteinis present at high levels during the S and G2/M phases of mitosis but itslevels drop dramatically when the cell ex...
PRIM2: This gene encodes the 58 kilodalton subunit of DNA primase, an enzymethat plays a key role in the replication of DNA. The encoded protein f...
PRMT5: This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the methyltransferase family.The encoded protein catalyzes the transfer of methyl groups to the amino acidarg...
PRPF4B: Pre-mRNA splicing occurs in two sequential transesterification steps,and the protein encoded by this gene is thought to...
PTTG1: The encoded protein is a homolog of yeast securin proteins, which preventseparins from promoting sister chromatid separation. It is an anaphase-promotingcomplex (APC) substrate that associates with a separin until activation ofthe APC. The gene p...
PTTG3P: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin h...
PURA: This gene product is a sequence-specific, single-stranded DNA-bindingprotein. It binds preferentially to the single strand of the p...
RACGAP1: This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a compomentof the centralspindlin complex. This protein binds activ...
RAD21: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene productof Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad21, a gene involved in the repair...
RAD23B: The protein encoded by this gene is one of two human homologs of Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad23, a protein involved in the nucleotide excision repair (NER).This protein was found to be a component of the protein complex that...
RAD54L: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicasesuperfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, aprotein known to be in...
RASAL2: This gene encodes a protein that contains the GAP-related domain (GRD),a characteristic domain of GTPase-activatin...
RBL1: The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence and possiblyfunction to the product of the retinoblastoma 1 (RB1) gene. The RB1 gene productis a tumor suppressor protein that appears to be involved in cell cycle regulation,as it is phospho...
RBM14: This gene encodes a ribonucleoprotein that functions as a general nuclearcoactivator, and an RNA splicing modulator. This protein contains t...
RPA2: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotrimeric Replication ProteinA (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forming a nucleoproteincomplex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, being involved inDNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance, and co-ordinatingthe cellular response t...
RPS6KA5: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in...
SAP30: Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryoticgene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed ...
SFPQ: Enables DNA binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,...
SLC12A2: The protein encoded by this gene mediates sodium and chloride transportand reabsorption. The encod...
SLC38A1: Amino acid transporters play essential roles in the uptake of nutrients,production of energy, chemical metabol...
SLC7A1: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity and L-histidinetransmembr...
SLC7A5: Enables L-leucine transmembrane transporter activity; L-tryptophantransmembrane transporter activity; and thyroid hormone transmembr...
SMAD3: The SMAD family of proteins are a group of intracellular signal transducerproteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene ''mothers againstdecapentaplegic'' (Mad)...
SMARCC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF familyof proteins, whose members display helicase and ATPas...
SMC1A: Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correctsegregation of chromosomes during cell division. The cohesin multiproteincomplex is required for sister chromatid cohesion. This complex is composedpartly of two structural maintenance of chr...
SMC2: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity; chromatin binding activity;and sing...
SMC4: This gene belongs to the ''structural maintenance of chromosomes'' (SMC)gene family. Members of this gene family play a role in...
SNRPD1: This gene encodes a small nuclear ribonucleoprotein that belongs tothe SNRNP core protein family. ...
SQLE: Squalene epoxidase catalyzes the first oxygenat...
SRSF1: This gene encodes a member of the arginine/serine-rich splicing factorprotein family. The enc...
SRSF10: This gene product is a member of the serine-arginine (SR) family ofproteins, which are involved in constitutive and regulated RNA splicing. Membersof this family are c...
SRSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/arginine(SR)-rich family of pre-mRNA splicing factors, which constitute part of thespliceosome. Each of these factors contains an RNA recognit...
SS18: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in ...
STAG1: This gene is a member of the SCC3 family and is expressed in the nucleus.It encodes a component o...
STIL: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein implicated in regulation ofthe mitotic spindle checkpoint, a regulatory pathway that monitors chromosomesegregation during cell division to ensure the proper distribution of chromosomesto da...
STMN1: This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitouscytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intra...
SUV39H1: This gene encodes an evolutionarily-conserved protein containingan N-terminal chromodomain and a C-terminal SET domain....
SYNCRIP: This gene encodes a member of the cellular heterogeneous nuclearribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) family. hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins that complexwith heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) an...
TACC3: This gene encodes a member of the transforming acidic colied-coil proteinfamily...
TENT4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA polymerase that is likelyinvolved ...
TFDP1: This gene encodes a member of a family of transcription factors thatheterodimerize with E2F proteins to enhance their DNA-binding ac...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression...
TLE3: This gene encodes a transcriptional co-repressor protein that belongsto the transducin-like enhancer family of proteins. The members of this familyfuncti...
TMPO: Through alternative splicing, this gene encodes several distinct LEMdomain containing protein isoforms. LEM domain proteins include inner nuclearmembrane and intranuclear protei...
TNPO2: Predicted to enable nuclear import signal receptor activity and nuclearlocalization sequence ...
TOP1: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and altersthe topologic states of DNA during tr...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls andalters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzymeis involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation,and the relief of torsional st...
TPX2: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved ...
TRA2B: This gene encodes a nuclear protein which functions as sequence-specific...
TRAIP: This gene encodes a protein that contains an N-terminal RING fingermotif and a putative coiled-coil domain. A sim...
TROAP: Predicted to be involved in cell a...
TTK: This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase with the abilityto phosphorylate tyrosine, serine and threonine. Associated with cell proliferation,this prot...
UBE2C: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three clas...
UBE2S: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.Th...
UCK2: This gene encodes a pyrimidine ribonucleoside kinase. The encode...
UPF1: This gene encodes a protein that is part of a post-splicing multiproteincomplex involved in both mRNA nuclear export and mRNA surveillance. mRNA surveillancedetects exported mRNAs with trun...
WRN: This gene encodes a member of the RecQ subfamily of DNA helicase proteins.The encoded nuclear protein is important in the maintenance of genome stabilityand plays a role in DNA re...
XPO1: This cell-cycle-regulated gene encodes a protein that mediates leucine-richnuclear export signal (NES)-depe...
YTHDC1: Enables N6-methyladenosine-containing RNA binding activity. Involve...

===
Summary and enriched terms:'      response_text: 'Summary: Cell cycle regulation, DNA replication, repair andtranscription, and chromosomal organization.
Mechanism: The enriched terms indicate that these genes play crucial rolesin cell cycle regulation, involving distinct processes such as cell division,DNA replication and repair, transcription regulation, and organization ofchromosomal structures.
Enriched Terms: cell cycle regulation; DNA replication; DNA repair; transcriptionregulation; chromosomal organization.'      truncation_factor: 0.2621440000000001      summary: 'Summary: Cell cycle regulation, DNA replication, repair and transcription,and chromosomal organization.
Mechanism: The enriched terms indicate that these genes play crucial rolesin cell cycle regulation, involving distinct processes such as cell division,DNA replication and repair, transcription regulation, and organization ofchromosomal structures.
'      term_strings:      - cell cycle regulation      - dna replication      - dna repair      - transcription regulation      - chromosomal organization      term_ids:      - GO:0051726      - GO:0006260      - GO:0006281      - transcription regulation      - chromosomal organization      annotations: true      response_token_length: 81      model: gpt-4      method: narrative_synopsis      prompt_variant: v1    gpt-4.narrative_synopsis.v2:      prompt: 'I will give you a list of human genes  together with descriptions oftheir functions.
Perform a term enrichment test on these genes.
i.e. tell me what the commonalities are in their function.
Make use of classification hierarchies when you do this.
Only report gene functions in common, not diseases.
e.g if gene1 is involved in "toe bone growth" and gene2 is involved in "fingermorphogenesis"
then the term "digit development" would be enriched as represented by gene1and gene2.
Only include terms that are statistically over-represented.
Also include a hypothesis of the underlying biological mechanism or pathway.
Provide results in the format
Summary: <high level summary>
Mechanism: <mechanism>
Enriched Terms: <term1>; <term2>; <term3>
For the list of terms, be sure to use a semi-colon separator, and do not numberthe list.
Always put the list of terms last, after mechanism, summary, or hypotheses.

Here are the gene summaries:

ABL1: This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinaseinvolved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion,differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negativelyregul...
AMD1: This gene encodes an important intermediate enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis.The polyamines spermine, sp...
ARID4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitously expressed nuclearprotein. It binds directly, with several other proteins, to retinoblastomaprotein (pRB) which reg...
ATF5: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription activatoractivity, RNA polymerase II-specific; RNA polymerase ...
ATRX: The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain,and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins.This protein is found to undergo cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation, whichregul...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at thespindle pol...
AURKB: This gene encodes a member of the aurora kinase subfamily of serine/threoninekinases. The genes encoding the other two members o...
BARD1: This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the N-terminal regionof BRCA1. In addition to its ability to bind BRCA1 in vivo and in vitro, itshares homology with the 2 most conserved regions of BRCA1: the N-terminalRING motif and the C-te...
BCL3: This gene is a proto-oncogene candidate. It is identified by its translocationinto the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some cases of B-cell leukemia. Thepro...
BIRC5: This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family,which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death.IAP ...
BRCA2: Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increasedlifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the h...
BUB1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a centralrole in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylatingmem...
BUB3: This gene encodes a protein involved in spindle checkpoint function.The encode...
CASP8AP2: This protein is highly similar to FLASH, a mouse apoptotic proteinidentified by its interaction with the death-effector domain (DE...
CBX1: This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is amember of the heterochromatin protein family . The protein is enriched inthe heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The pro...
CCNA2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin...
CCNB2: Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-typecyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essenti...
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of...
CCNF: This gene encodes a member of the cyclin family. Cyclins are importantregulators of cell cycle transitions through their ability to bind and activatecyclin-dependent protein kinases. This member also belongs to the F-box protein...
CCNT1: This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved cyclin C subfamily.The encoded protein tightly associates with cyclin-dependent kinase 9, andis a major subunit of positive transcription elongation factor b (p-TEFb).In humans, there are multiple f...
CDC20: CDC20 appears to act as a regulatory protein interacting with severalo...
CDC25A: CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A isrequired for progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. It activatesth...
CDC25B: CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activatesthe cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it isr...
CDC27: The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomycescerevisiae protein Cdc27, and the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombenuc 2. This protein is a component of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC),which is composed of eight ...
CDC45: The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its strong similaritywith Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc45, an essential protein required to theinitiation of DNA replication. Cdc45 i...
CDC6: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomycescerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication.This protein function...
CDC7: This gene encodes a cell division cycle protein with kinase activitythat is critical for the G1/S transition. The...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conservedprotein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting ...
CDK4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiaecdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the pro...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which sharesa limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein bindsto and prevent...
CDKN2C: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family ofcyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interactwith CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of ...
CDKN3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity proteinphosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-depen...
CENPA: Centromeres are the differentiated chromosomal domains that specifythe mitotic behavior of chromosomes. This gene encodes a centromere proteinwhich contains a histone H3 related h...
CENPE: Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor proteinthat accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associatedproteins, ...
CENPF: This gene encodes a protein that associates with the centromere-kinetochorecomplex. The protein is a component of the nuclear matrix during the G2 phaseof interphase. In late G2 the protein ...
CHAF1A: Chromatin assembly factor I (CAF1) is a nuclear complex consisting...
CHEK1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in responseto DNA damage or th...
CHMP1A: This gene encodes a member of the CHMP/Chmp family of proteins whichare involved in multivesicular body sorting of proteins to the...
CKS1B: CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and is essential for their biological ...
CKS2: CKS2 protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependentkinases and i...
CTCF: This gene is a member of the BORIS + CTCF gene family and encodes atranscriptional regulator protein with 11 highly conserved zinc finger (ZF)domains. This nuclear protein is able to use different combinations of theZF domains to bind different DNA...
CUL1: Predicted to enable ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity and ubiquitin-proteintransferase acti...
CUL3: This gene encodes a member of the cullin protein family. The encodedprotein plays a critical role in the polyubiquitination and subsequent degra...
CUL4A: CUL4A is the ubiquitin ligase component of a mult...
CUL5: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin SCF-dependent proteasomal ubiquitin-d...
DBF4: Predicted to enable protein serine/threonine kinase activator activity.P...
DDX39A: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteinsare characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putativeRNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involvingalteration ...
DKC1: This gene functions in two distinct complexes. It plays an active rolein telomerase stabilization and maintenance, as well as recognition of snoRNAscontainin...
DMD: This gene spans a genomic range of greater than 2 Mb and encodes a largeprotein containing an N-terminal actin-binding domain and multiple spectrinrepeats. The enco...
DR1: This gene encodes a TBP- (TATA box-binding protein) associated phosphoproteinthat represses both basal and activated levels of transcription. The encodedprotein is phosphorylated in...
DTYMK: Enables thymidylate kinase activity. Predicted to be involved in dTDPbiosynthetic process; dTTP biosynthetic process; and ...
E2F1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DNA tumor...
E2F2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DN...
E2F3: This gene encodes a member of a small family of transcription factorsthat function through binding of DP interaction partner proteins. The encodedpr...
E2F4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DNA tumor virus...
EFNA5: Ephrin-A5, a member of the ephrin gene family, prevents axon bundlingin cocultures of cortical neurons with astrocytes, a model of late stage nervoussystem development and differentiation. The EPH and EPH-related receptorscomprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine ki...
EGF: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor superfamily.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the 53-aminoacid epidermal growth factor peptide. This protein ac...
ESPL1: Stable cohesion between sister chromatids before anaphase and theirtimely separation during anaphase are critical for chromosome inheritance.In ver...
EWSR1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that is involved in variouscellular processes, including gene expression, cell signaling, and RNA processingand transport. The protein includes an N-terminal transcriptional activationdomain and a C-termina...
EXO1: This gene encodes a protein with 5'' to 3'' exonuclease activity aswell as an RNase H activity. It ...
EZH2: This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG familymembers form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintainingt...
FANCC: The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includesFANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG,FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM an...
FBXO5: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called...
FOXN3: This gene is a member of the forkhead/winged helix transcription factorfamily. Checkpoints are eukaryotic DNA d...
G3BP1: This gene encodes one of the DNA-unwinding enzymes which prefers partiallyunwound 3''-tailed substrates and can also unwind partial RNA/DNA and RNA/RNAduplexes...
GINS2: The yeast heterotetrameric GINS complex is made up of Sld5 (GINS4;MIM 610611), Psf1 (GINS1; MIM 610...
GSPT1: Enables translation release factor activity. Involved in regulationof transl...
H2AX: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B...
H2AZ1: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octa...
H2AZ2: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately146 bp of DNA...
H2BC12: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer,...
HIF1A: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-induciblefactor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit.HIF-1 functions as a master regula...
HIRA: This gene encodes a histone chaperone that preferentially places thevariant histone H3.3 in nucleosomes. Orthologs of this gene in yeast, flies,and plants are necessar...
HMGA1: This gene encodes a chromatin-associated protein involved in the regulationof gene transcription, integration of retroviruses ...
HMGB3: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing one ormore high mobility group DNA-binding motifs. The encoded...
HMGN2: The protein encoded by this gene binds nucleosomal DNA and is associatedwith transcriptionally act...
HMMR: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It isexpressed in breast tissue ...
HNRNPD: This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneousnuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are nucleic acid binding proteinsand they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These pro...
HNRNPU: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that bind nucleicacids and function in the formation of ribonucleoprotein ...
HOXC10: This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genesencode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an importantrole in morphoge...
HSPA8: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family, whichcontains both heat-inducible and constitutively expressed members. This proteinbelongs...
HUS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an evolutionarilyconserved, genotoxin-activated checkpoint complex that is involved in thecell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage. This protein f...
ILF3: This gene encodes a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding protein thatcomplexes with other proteins, dsRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, and mRNAs toregulate gene expression and stabilize mRNAs. This protein (NF90, I...
INCENP: In mammalian cells, 2 broad groups of centromere-interacting proteinshave been described: constitutively binding centromere proteins and ''passenger,''or transiently interacting, proteins (reviewed by Choo, 1997). The constitutiveproteins include CENPA (centromere protein A; MIM 117139), CENPB (MIM 117140),CENPC1 (MIM ...
JPT1: Located in nuclear membrane;...
KATNA1: Microtubules, polymers of alpha and beta tubulin subunits, form themitotic spindle of a dividing cell and help to organize membranous organellesduring interphase...
KIF11: This gene encodes a motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-likeprotein family. Members o...
KIF15: Predicted to enable microtubule binding activity and mi...
KIF20B: Enables several functions, including WW domain binding activity; plus-end-directedmicrotubule motor activi...
KIF22: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like proteinfamily. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular mot...
KIF23: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of kinesin-like proteinfamily. This family includes microtubule-dep...
KIF2C: This gene encodes a kinesin-like protein that functions as a microtubule-dependen...
KIF4A: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin relatedproteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based ...
KIF5B: Enables identical protein binding activity; microtubule binding activity;and microtubule motor activ...
KMT5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a protein-lysine N-methyltransferasethat ...
KNL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multiproteinassembly that is required for creation of kinetochore-microtubule attachmentsand chromosome segregation. The encoded protein functions as a scaffold forproteins that influence the spindle assem...
KPNA2: The import of proteins into the nucleus is a process that involvesat least 2 steps. The first is an energy-independent docking of the proteinto the nuclear envelope and the second is an energy-dependent translocationthrough the nuclear pore complex. Imported pr...
KPNB1: Nucleocytoplasmic transport, a signal- and energy-dependent process,takes place through nuclear pore complexes embedded in the nuclear envelope.The import of proteins containing a nuclear localization signal (NLS) requiresthe NLS import receptor, a heterodimer of importin alp...
LBR: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ERG4/ERG24 family. Itlocalized in the nuclear envelope inner membrane and ancho...
LIG3: This gene is a member of the DNA ligase family. Each member of thisfamily encodes a protein that catalyzes the joining of DNA ends but they eachhave a distinct role i...
LMNB1: This gene encodes one of the two B-type lamin proteins and is a componento...
MAD2L1: MAD2L1 is a component of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint thatprevents the...
MAP3K20: This gene is a member of the MAPKKK family of signal transductionmolecules and encodes a protein with an N-terminal kinase catalytic domain,followed by a leucine ...
MAPK14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family.MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals,and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation,differentiation, transcript...
MARCKS: The protein encoded by this gene is a substrate for protein kinaseC. It is localized to the plasma membrane and is an acti...
MCM2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein compl...
MCM3: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM protei...
MCM5: The protein encoded by this gene is structurally very similar to theCDC46 protein from S. cerevisiae, a protein involved in th...
MCM6: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by the MCM proteinsis a key componen...
MEIS1: Homeobox genes, of which the most well-characterized category is representedby the HOX genes, p...
MEIS2: This gene encodes a homeobox protein belonging to the TALE (''threeamino acid loop extension'') family of homeo...
MKI67: This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is associated with and ...
MNAT1: The protein encoded by this gene, along with cyclin H and CDK7, formsthe CDK-activating kinase (...
MT2A: This gene is a member of the metallothionein family of genes. Proteinsencoded by this gene family are low in molecular weight, are cysteine-rich,lack aromatic residues, and bind divalent heavy metal ...
MTF2: Enables methylated histone binding activity and transcription corepressorbinding activity. Predicted to be involved in s...
MYBL2: The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the MYB family of transcriptionfactor genes, is a nuclear protein involved in cell cycle progressi...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein thatplays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the r...
NASP: This gene encodes a H1 histone binding protein that is involved in transportinghistones into the nucleus of dividing cells. Multiple isoforms are encoded...
NCL: Nucleolin (NCL), a eukaryotic nucleolar phosphoprotein, is involved inthe synthesis and matura...
NDC80: This gene encodes a component of the NDC80 kinetochore complex. Theencoded protein consists of an N-te...
NEK2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involvedin mitotic regulation. This protein is lo...
NOLC1: Enables protein heterodimerization activity and protein-macromolecule...
NOTCH2: This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics includingan extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like(EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, differentdomain types. Notch family membe...
NSD2: This gene encodes a protein that contains four domains present in otherdevelopmental proteins: a PWWP domain, an HMG box, a SET domain, and a PHD-typezinc finger. It is expressed ubiquitously in ea...
NUMA1: This gene encodes a large protein that forms a structural componentof the nuclear matrix. The encoded protein interacts with micro...
NUP50: The nuclear pore complex is a massive structure that extends acrossthe nuclear envelope, forming a gateway that regulates the flow of macromoleculesbetween the nuc...
NUP98: Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) regulate the transport of macromoleculesbetween the nucleus and cytoplasm, and are composed of many polypeptide subunits,many of which belong to the nucleoporin family. This gene belongs to the nucleoporingene family and encodes a 186 kDa precursor protein that undergoes autoproteol...
NUSAP1: NUSAP1 is a nucleolar-spindle-associated prot...
ODC1: This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesispathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for thee...
ODF2: The outer dense fibers are cytoskeletal structures that surround theaxoneme in the middle piece and principal piece of the sperm tail. The fibersfunction in maintaining the elastic structure and recoil of...
ORC5: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication i...
ORC6: The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunitprotein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryoticcells. Stu...
PAFAH1B1: This locus was identified as encoding a gene that when mutated orlost caused the lissencephaly associated with Miller-Dieker lissencephalysyndrome. This gene encodes the non-catalytic alpha ...
PBK: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase related to the dualspecific mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) family. Evide...
PDS5B: This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the conserved proteincomplex termed cohesin...
PLK1: The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polosubfamily. It is highl...
PLK4: This gene encodes a member of the polo family of serine/threonine proteinkinases. The protein locali...
PML: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. This phosphopro...
POLA2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in DNA re...
POLE: This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon. Theenzyme is...
POLQ: Enables catalytic activity, acting on DNA; chromatin binding activity;and identical protein...
PRC1: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in cytokinesis. The proteinis present at high levels during the S and G2/M phases of mitosis but itslevels drop dramatically when the cell ex...
PRIM2: This gene encodes the 58 kilodalton subunit of DNA primase, an enzymethat plays a key role in the replication of DNA. The encoded protein f...
PRMT5: This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the methyltransferase family.The encoded protein catalyzes the transfer of methyl groups to the amino acidarg...
PRPF4B: Pre-mRNA splicing occurs in two sequential transesterification steps,and the protein encoded by this gene is thought to...
PTTG1: The encoded protein is a homolog of yeast securin proteins, which preventseparins from promoting sister chromatid separation. It is an anaphase-promotingcomplex (APC) substrate that associates with a separin until activation ofthe APC. The gene p...
PTTG3P: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin h...
PURA: This gene product is a sequence-specific, single-stranded DNA-bindingprotein. It binds preferentially to the single strand of the p...
RACGAP1: This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a compomentof the centralspindlin complex. This protein binds activ...
RAD21: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene productof Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad21, a gene involved in the repair...
RAD23B: The protein encoded by this gene is one of two human homologs of Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad23, a protein involved in the nucleotide excision repair (NER).This protein was found to be a component of the protein complex that...
RAD54L: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicasesuperfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, aprotein known to be in...
RASAL2: This gene encodes a protein that contains the GAP-related domain (GRD),a characteristic domain of GTPase-activatin...
RBL1: The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence and possiblyfunction to the product of the retinoblastoma 1 (RB1) gene. The RB1 gene productis a tumor suppressor protein that appears to be involved in cell cycle regulation,as it is phospho...
RBM14: This gene encodes a ribonucleoprotein that functions as a general nuclearcoactivator, and an RNA splicing modulator. This protein contains t...
RPA2: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotrimeric Replication ProteinA (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forming a nucleoproteincomplex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, being involved inDNA replication, repair, recombination, telomere maintenance, and co-ordinatingthe cellular response t...
RPS6KA5: Enables ATP binding activity and protein serine/threonine kinaseactivity. Involved in...
SAP30: Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryoticgene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed ...
SFPQ: Enables DNA binding activity; histone deacetylase binding activity;and protein homodimerization activity. Involved in several processes,...
SLC12A2: The protein encoded by this gene mediates sodium and chloride transportand reabsorption. The encod...
SLC38A1: Amino acid transporters play essential roles in the uptake of nutrients,production of energy, chemical metabol...
SLC7A1: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity and L-histidinetransmembr...
SLC7A5: Enables L-leucine transmembrane transporter activity; L-tryptophantransmembrane transporter activity; and thyroid hormone transmembr...
SMAD3: The SMAD family of proteins are a group of intracellular signal transducerproteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene ''mothers againstdecapentaplegic'' (Mad)...
SMARCC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF familyof proteins, whose members display helicase and ATPas...
SMC1A: Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correctsegregation of chromosomes during cell division. The cohesin multiproteincomplex is required for sister chromatid cohesion. This complex is composedpartly of two structural maintenance of chr...
SMC2: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity; chromatin binding activity;and sing...
SMC4: This gene belongs to the ''structural maintenance of chromosomes'' (SMC)gene family. Members of this gene family play a role in...
SNRPD1: This gene encodes a small nuclear ribonucleoprotein that belongs tothe SNRNP core protein family. ...
SQLE: Squalene epoxidase catalyzes the first oxygenat...
SRSF1: This gene encodes a member of the arginine/serine-rich splicing factorprotein family. The enc...
SRSF10: This gene product is a member of the serine-arginine (SR) family ofproteins, which are involved in constitutive and regulated RNA splicing. Membersof this family are c...
SRSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/arginine(SR)-rich family of pre-mRNA splicing factors, which constitute part of thespliceosome. Each of these factors contains an RNA recognit...
SS18: Enables nuclear receptor coactivator activity. Involved in ...
STAG1: This gene is a member of the SCC3 family and is expressed in the nucleus.It encodes a component o...
STIL: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein implicated in regulation ofthe mitotic spindle checkpoint, a regulatory pathway that monitors chromosomesegregation during cell division to ensure the proper distribution of chromosomesto da...
STMN1: This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitouscytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intra...
SUV39H1: This gene encodes an evolutionarily-conserved protein containingan N-terminal chromodomain and a C-terminal SET domain....
SYNCRIP: This gene encodes a member of the cellular heterogeneous nuclearribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) family. hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins that complexwith heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) an...
TACC3: This gene encodes a member of the transforming acidic colied-coil proteinfamily...
TENT4A: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA polymerase that is likelyinvolved ...
TFDP1: This gene encodes a member of a family of transcription factors thatheterodimerize with E2F proteins to enhance their DNA-binding ac...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regulate gene expression...
TLE3: This gene encodes a transcriptional co-repressor protein that belongsto the transducin-like enhancer family of proteins. The members of this familyfuncti...
TMPO: Through alternative splicing, this gene encodes several distinct LEMdomain containing protein isoforms. LEM domain proteins include inner nuclearmembrane and intranuclear protei...
TNPO2: Predicted to enable nuclear import signal receptor activity and nuclearlocalization sequence ...
TOP1: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and altersthe topologic states of DNA during tr...
TOP2A: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls andalters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzymeis involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation,and the relief of torsional st...
TPX2: Enables importin-alpha family protein binding activity and protein kinasebinding activity. Involved ...
TRA2B: This gene encodes a nuclear protein which functions as sequence-specific...
TRAIP: This gene encodes a protein that contains an N-terminal RING fingermotif and a putative coiled-coil domain. A sim...
TROAP: Predicted to be involved in cell a...
TTK: This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase with the abilityto phosphorylate tyrosine, serine and threonine. Associated with cell proliferation,this prot...
UBE2C: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation.Ubiquitination involves at least three clas...
UBE2S: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.Th...
UCK2: This gene encodes a pyrimidine ribonucleoside kinase. The encode...
UPF1: This gene encodes a protein that is part of a post-splicing multiproteincomplex involved in both mRNA nuclear export and mRNA surveillance. mRNA surveillancedetects exported mRNAs with trun...
WRN: This gene encodes a member of the RecQ subfamily of DNA helicase proteins.The encoded nuclear protein is important in the maintenance of genome stabilityand plays a role in DNA re...
XPO1: This cell-cycle-regulated gene encodes a protein that mediates leucine-richnuclear export signal (NES)-depe...
YTHDC1: Enables N6-methyladenosine-containing RNA binding activity. Involve...
////
ABCB6: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transportersuperfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules a...
ADORA2B: This gene encodes an adenosine receptor that is a member of the Gprotein-coupled receptor superfamily...
AGL: This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved inglycogen degradation. This enzyme has two independent catalytic activitieswhic...
AGRN: This gene encodes one of several proteins that are critical in the developmentof the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), as identified in mouse knock-out studies.Th...
AK3: The protein encoded by this gene is a GTP:ATP phosphotransfe...
AK4: This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family of enzymes.The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondrial matrix. Adenylate kinasesregulate the adenine and guanine nucleotide com...
AKR1A1: This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily,which consists of more than 40 known enzy...
ALDH7A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of subfamily 7 in thealdehyde dehydrogenase gene family. These enzymes are thought to play a majorrole in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism andlipid pero...
ALDH9A1: This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins.It has a high activit...
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolaseprotein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe reversible conversion of fructose-1,6...
ALDOB: Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) is a tetrameric glycolyticenzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphateto glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Vertebrateshave 3 aldolase isozymes which are dist...
ALG1: The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first mannos...
ANG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RNase A superfamilythough it has relatively weak ribonucleolytic activity. This protein is apotent mediator of new blood vessel formation and thus, in addition to thename RNase5, is commonly called angiogenin. This protein induces angiogenesisafter binding to actin on the surface of endothelial cells. This protein alsoaccumul...
ANGPTL4: This gene encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein containing a C-terminalfibrinogen domain. The encoded protein is induced by peroxisome proliferationactivators and functions as a serum hormone that reg...
ANKZF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activit...
ARPP19: The 19-kD cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein plays a role in r...
ARTN: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophicfactor (GDNF) subfamily and TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamilyof proteins. Ligands of this family bind vari...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at thespindle pol...
B3GALT6: The enzyme encoded by this intronless gene is a beta-1,3-galactosyltransferasefound in the medial Golgi apparatus, wh...
B3GAT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glucuronyltransferasegene family. These enzymes exhibit strict acceptor speci...
B3GAT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glucuronyltransferasegene family, enzymes that exhibit strict acceptor specifi...
B3GNT3: This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferasefamily. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein and conta...
B4GALT1: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, andXyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of differentglycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, theyhave an N-...
B4GALT2: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Gl...
B4GALT4: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to haveexclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfergalactose in a beta1,4 linkage to ...
B4GALT7: This gene is a member of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT)family. Family members encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appearto have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose. Eachbeta4GalT member has a distinct function i...
BIK: The protein encoded by this gene shares a critical BH3 domain with otherdeath-promoting proteins, such as BID, BAK, BAD and ...
BPNT1: BPNT1, also called bisphosphate 3-prime-nucleotidase, or BPntase, isa member of a magnesium-dependent phosphomonoesterase family. L...
CACNA1H: This gene encodes a T-type member of the alpha-1 subunit family,a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channelsmediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarizati...
CAPN5: Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteases involved in signaltransduction in a variety of cellular processes. A functiona...
CASP6: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family of enzymes. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central rolein the execution-phase...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involvedin cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor forhyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands,...
CDK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr proteinkinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conservedprotein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting ...
CENPA: Centromeres are the differentiated chromosomal domains that specifythe mitotic behavior of chromosomes. This gene encodes a centromere proteinwhich contains a histone H3 related h...
CHPF: Enables N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferaseactivity and ...
CHPF2: Predicted to enable glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan...
CHST1: This locus encodes a member of the keratin sulf...
CHST12: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transferof s...
CHST2: This locus encodes a sulfotransferase protein. The encoded en...
CHST4: This gene encodes an N-acetylglucosamine 6-O sulfotransferase. Theencoded enzyme transfers sulfate from 3''phosphoadenosine 5''pho...
CHST6: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer...
CITED2: The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-inducedgenes by competin...
CLDN3: Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelialor endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and servingas a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from ...
CLDN9: This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integralmembrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junctionstrands serve as a phys...
CLN6: This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroidlipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten dis...
COG2: This gene encodes a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complexthat is required for maintaining normal structure and activity ...
COL5A1: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues c...
COPB2: The Golgi coatomer complex (see MIM 601924) constitutes the co...
CTH: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme in the trans-sulfuration pathwaythat converts cystathione derive...
CXCR4: This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derivedfactor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is loca...
CYB5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound cytochrome thatreduces ferric hemoglobin (met...
DCN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants,at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involv...
DEPDC1: Predicted to enable GTPase activator activity. Involved in...
DLD: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlightingprotein based on its ab...
DPYSL4: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to...
DSC2: This gene encodes a member of the desmocollin protein subfamily. Desmocollins,along with desmogleins, are cadherin-like transmembrane glycoproteins thatare major components of t...
ECD: Enables histone acetyltransferase binding activity. Inv...
EFNA3: This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrinsand EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosinekin...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein thatis a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptorfor members of the epidermal...
EGLN3: Enables peptidyl-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, including activation of cyste...
ELF3: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific and sequence-specific d...
ENO1: This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes foundin mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or2 beta subunits, and functi...
ENO2: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This i...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in c...
EXT1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum-resident type II transmem...
EXT2: This gene encodes one of two glycosyltransferases involved in the chainelongation s...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase...
FBP2: This gene encodes a gluconeogenesis regulatory enz...
FKBP4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin proteinfamily, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processesinvolving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-transprolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin.It has high structural and functional sim...
FUT8: This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the family of fucosyltransferases.The product of this gene catalyzes the transfer of fucose from...
G6PD: This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This protein isa cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main functionis to produce NADPH, a key electron d...
GAL3ST1: Sulfonation, an important step in the metabolism of many drugs, xenobiotics,hormones, and neurotransmitters, is catalyzed by sulfotransferases. This geneencodes galactosylce...
GALE: This gene encodes UDP-galactose-4-epimerase which catalyzes two distinctbut analogous reactions: the epimerization of UDP-glucose to UDP-galactose,and the epimerization of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine.The bifunctio...
GALK1: Galactokinase is a major enzyme for the metabolism of...
GALK2: This gene encodes a highly efficient N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)kinase, which...
GAPDHS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatedehydrogenase family of enzymes that play an important role in carbohydratemetabolism....
GCLC: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetaseis the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme c...
GFPT1: This gene encodes the first and rate-limiting enzyme of the hexos...
GFUS: Tissue specific transplantation antigen P35B is a NADP(H)-binding protein.It catalyze the two-step epimerase and the reductase react...
GLCE: Enables calcium ion binding activity; heparosan-N-sulfate-glucuronate5-epimerase activity; and pro...
GLRX: This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded proteinis a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reduction of glutat...
GMPPA: This gene is thought to encode a GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase. Th...
GMPPB: This gene is thought to encode a GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase. Theencoded protein cataly...
GNE: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that initiatesand regulates the biosynthesis of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc), a precursorof sialic acids. It is a rate-limiting enzyme in th...
GNPDA1: Glucosamine-6-phosphate deaminase (EC 3.5.99.6) is an allosteric e...
GOT1: Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependentenzyme which exist...
GOT2: Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependentenzyme which exists in cytoplasmic and inne...
GPC1: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variab...
GPC3: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains.Members of the glypican-related integral membrane pr...
GPC4: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate ...
GPR87: This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor and is located in acluster of ...
GUSB: This gene encodes a hydrolase that degrades glycosaminoglycans, includingheparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, a...
GYS1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the addition of glucose monomersto the growing glyco...
GYS2: The protein encoded by this gene, liver glycogen synthase, catalyzesthe rate-limiting step in the synthesis...
HAX1: The protein encoded by this gene is known to associate with hematopoieticcell-specific Lyn substrate 1, a substrate of Src family tyrosine kinases.It also interacts with the product of the poly...
HDLBP: The protein encoded by this gene binds high density lipoprotein...
HK2: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thefirst step in most glucose metabolism pathways....
HMMR: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It isexpressed in breast tissue ...
HOMER1: This gene encodes a member of the homer family ...
HS2ST1: Heparan sulfate biosynthetic enzymes are key components in generatinga myriad of distinct heparan sulfate fine structures that carry out multiplebiologic activities. This ge...
HS6ST2: Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are ubiquitous components of the cellsurface, extracellular matrix, and basement membranes, and interact with variousligands ...
HSPA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein70 (HSP70) family. This protein localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum (ER) where it operates as a typical HSP70 chaperone involved inthe folding and assembly of proteins in the ER and is a master regu...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependentisocitrate dehydrogenas...
IDUA: This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronicacid residues of two glycosamino...
IER3: This gene functions in the protection of cells from Fas- or tumor necrosisfactor...
IGFBP3: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP domain and a thyroglobulint...
IL13RA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the interleukin13 receptor. This subunit forms a receptor complex with IL4 receptor a...
IRS2: This gene encodes the insulin receptor substrate 2, a cytoplasmic signalingmolecule that mediates effects of insulin, insulin-lik...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defe...
KDELR3: This gene encodes a member of the KDEL endoplasmic reticulum proteinretention receptor family. Retention of resident soluble proteins in the lumenof the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is achieved in both yeast and animal cellsby their continual retrieval...
KIF20A: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in microtubule bundleformation; mid...
KIF2A: The protein encoded by this gene is a plus end-directed motor requiredfor normal mitotic...
LCT: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 1family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically process...
LDHA: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactateand NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic g...
LDHC: Lactate dehydrogenase C catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NADto pyruvate and...
LHPP: Enables inorganic diphosphatase activity and protein homodim...
LHX9: This gene encodes a member of the LIM homeobox gene family of developmentallyexpressed transcription factors. The encoded ...
MDH1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD/NADH-dependent, reversibleoxidation of malate to oxaloacetate in many metabolic pathways, includingthe citric acid cycle. Two main isozymes are known to exist in eukaryoticcells: one is f...
MDH2: Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate tooxaloacetate, utilizing the NAD/NADH cofactor system ...
ME1: This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPHfor fatty acid biosynthesis. The activity...
ME2: This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD-dependent malic enzyme, a homotetramericprotein, that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruv...
MED24: This gene encodes a component of the mediator complex (also known asTRAP, SMCC, DRIP, or ARC), a transcriptional coactivator complex thought t...
MERTK: This gene is a member of the MER/AXL/TYRO3 receptor kinase family andencodes a transmembrane protein with two fib...
MET: This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family ofproteins and the product of the proto-oncogene MET. The encoded preproproteinis proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that arelinke...
MIF: This gene encodes a lymphokine involved in cell-mediated immunity, immunoregulation,and inflammation. It plays a role...
MIOX: Enables ferric iron binding activity and inositol oxygena...
MPI: Phosphomannose isomerase catalyzes the interconversion of fructose-6-phosphateand mannose-6-phosphate and plays a...
MXI1: Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcriptionfactor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulatedin human cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcripti...
NANP: Enables N-acylneuraminate-9-phosphatase activity. ...
NASP: This gene encodes a H1 histone binding protein that is involved in transportinghistones into the nucleus of dividing cells. Multiple isoforms are encoded...
NDST3: This gene encodes a member of the heparan sulfate/heparin GlcNAc N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase family. The encoded enzyme is a type II transmembra...
NDUFV3: The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least forty-one subunitsthat make up the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex. This complex is ...
NOL3: This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein that has been shown to dow...
NSDHL: The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the endoplasmic reticulumand is involved in cholesterol biosynt...
NT5E: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that catalyzesthe conversion of extracellular ...
P4HA1: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
P4HA2: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
PAM: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein. The encoded preproproteinis proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme includestwo domains wi...
PAXIP1: This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) gene family and encodesa nuclea...
PC: This gene encodes pyruvate carboxylase, which requires biotin and ATPto catalyse the carboxylation of pyruvate to oxaloacetate. The active enzymeis a homotetrame...
PDK3: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrialmultienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoAand CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and ...
PFKFB1: This gene encodes a member of the family of bifunctional 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase:fructose-2,6-biphosphataseenzymes. The enzyme forms a homodimer that catalyzes bo...
PFKP: This gene encodes a member of the phosphofructokinase A protein family.The encoded enzyme is the platelet-specific ...
PGAM1: The protein encoded by this gene is a mutase that catalyzes the reversible...
PGAM2: Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) catalyzes the reversible reaction of3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycol...
PGK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encodedprotein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. Additionally, t...
PGLS: Enables 6-phosphogluconolactonase activity....
PGM2: Enables phosphopentomutase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrat...
PHKA2: Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha,beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle andhepatic isoforms, and the hepatic isoform is encoded by this gene. The betasubunit is the same in both the muscle and...
PKM: This gene encodes a protein involved in glycolysis. The encoded proteinis a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphoryl group fromphosphoenolpyruvate to ADP, ge...
PKP2: This gene encodes a member of the arm-repeat (armadillo) and plakophilingene families. Plakophilin proteins contain numerous armadillo repeats, localizeto cell desmosomes and nuclei, and participate in linking cadherin...
PLOD1: Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localizedto the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors ironand ascorbate)...
PLOD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzymethat is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Theenzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) c...
PMM2: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the isomerization of mannose6-phosphate to mannose 1-phosp...
POLR3K: This gene encodes a small essential subunit of RNA polymerase III,the polymerase responsible for synthesizing transfer and small ribosomal RNAsin e...
PPFIA4: PPFIA4, or liprin-alpha-4, belongs to the li...
PPIA: This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase(PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidicpeptide bonds...
PPP2CB: This gene encodes the phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit. Protein phosphatase2A is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatas...
PRPS1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the phosphoribosylationof ribose 5-phosphate to 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphat...
PSMC4: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed...
PYGB: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen phosphorylase found predominantlyin the brain. The encoded protein form...
PYGL: This gene encodes a homodimeric protein that catalyses the cleavageof alpha-1,4-glucosidic bonds to release glucose-1-phosphate from liver glycogenstores. This protein switches from inactive phosphorylase B to active phosphorylaseA by phosphorylation of serine re...
QSOX1: This gene encodes a protein that contains domains of thioredoxin andERV1, members of two long-standing gene...
RARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate amino acid. Because of t...
RBCK1: The protein encoded by this gene is similar to mouse...
RPE: Enables metal ion binding activity; protein homodimerization activity;...
RRAGD: RRAGD is a monomeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein,...
SAP30: Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryoticgene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed ...
SDC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal orga...
SDC2: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.The syndecans media...
SDC3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the syndecan proteoglycanfamily. It may play a...
SDHC: This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprisesuccinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, a key enzymecomplex of the tricar...
SLC16A3: Lactic acid and pyruvate transport across plasma membranes is catalyzedby members of the proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) family,which has...
SLC25A10: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that translocatesmall metabolites across the mitochondrial membrane. The en...
SLC25A13: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encodedprotein contains four EF-hand Ca(2+) binding motifs in the N-terminal domai...
SLC35A3: This gene encodes a UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transporter found inthe g...
SLC37A4: This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasmto the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in ord...
SOD1: The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is oneof two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in thebody. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, ...
SOX9: The protein encoded by this gene recognizes the sequence CCTTGAG alongwith other members of the HMG-box cla...
SPAG4: The mammalian sperm flagellum contains two cytoskeletal structuresassociated with the axoneme: the outer dense fibers surrounding the axonemein the midpiece and principal piece and the f...
SRD5A3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the steroid 5-alpha reductasefamily, and polyprenol reductase subfamily. It is involved in the productionof androgen 5-a...
STC1: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The gene contains a 5'' UTR rich in CAG trinucle...
STC2: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The encoded protein has 10 of its 15 cysteine residues conserved among stanni...
STMN1: This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitouscytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intra...
TALDO1: Transaldolase 1 is a key enzyme of the nonoxidative pentose phosphatepathway providing ribose-5-phosphate for nucleic acid synthesis and NADPHfor lipid biosynthesis. Thi...
TFF3: Members of the trefoil family are characterized by having at least onecopy of the trefoil motif, a 40-amino acid domain that contains three conserved...
TGFA: This gene encodes a growth factor that is a ligand for the epidermalgrowth factor receptor, which activates a signaling pathway for cel...
TGFBI: This gene encodes an RGD-containing protein that binds to type I, IIand IV collagens. The RGD motif is found in many extracellular matrix proteins...
TKTL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transketolase that acts as ahomodimer and catalyzes the conversion of sedoheptulose 7-ph...
TPBG: This gene encodes a leucine-rich transmembrane glycoprotein that maybe involved in cell adhesion. The encoded prote...
TPI1: This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, whichcatalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehyd...
TPST1: Enables protein homodimerization activity and protein-tyro...
TXN: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homodimer and is involvedin many redox reactions. The encoded ...
UGP2: The enzyme encoded by this gene is an important intermediary in mammaliancarbohydrate interconversions. It transfers a glucose moiety from glucose-1-...
VCAN: This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family.The protein encoded is a large chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and is ...
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodesa heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Thisgrowth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelialcells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis.Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vesselformation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expressionis correlated with tumor stage...
VLDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of sp...
XYLT2: The protein encoded by this gene is an isoform of xylosyltransferase,which belongs to a family of glycosyltransferases. This enzyme transfers xylosefrom UDP-xylos...
ZNF292: This gene encodes a growth hormone-dependent, zinc finger transcriptionf...
////
ABCB6: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transportersuperfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules a...
ABCG2: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is included inthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes aredivided i...
ACKR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycosylated membrane proteinand a non-specific receptor for several c...
ACP5: This gene encodes an iron containing glycoprotein which catalyzes the...
ACSL6: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of acyl-CoAfrom fatty acids, ATP, and CoA, using magnesium as a cofacto...
ADD1: Adducins are a family of cytoskeletal proteins encoded by three genes(alpha, beta, and gamma). Adducin acts as a heterodimer of t...
ADD2: Adducins are heteromeric proteins composed of different subunits referredto as adducin alpha, beta and gamma. The three subunits are encoded by distinctgenes and belong to a family of membrane skeletal proteins involved in theassembly of spectrin-actin network in erythrocytes and at sites of cell-cellcontact in epithelial tissues....
ADIPOR1: This gene encodes a protein which acts as a receptor for adiponectin,a hormone secreted by adipocytes which regulates fatty acid cat...
AGPAT4: This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acy...
AHSP: This gene encodes a molecular chaperone which binds specifically tofree alpha-globin and is involved in hemog...
ALAD: The ALAD enzyme is composed of 8 identical subunits and catalyzes thecondensation of 2 molecules of delta-aminolevulinate to form porphobilinogen(a precursor of ...
ALAS2: The product of this gene specifies an erythroid-specific mitochondriallylocated enzyme. The enc...
ALDH1L1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate,nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+), and water t...
ALDH6A1: This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase proteinfamily. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial methylmalonate semialdehydedehydrogenase that plays a role...
ANK1: Ankyrins are a family of proteins that link the integral membrane proteinsto the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activitiessuch as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact and the maintenanceof specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with differentaffinities for vari...
AQP3: This gene encodes the water channel protein aquaporin 3. Aquaporinsare a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsicprotein, also known as aquaporin 0. Aqu...
ARHGEF12: Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processesthat are initiated by extracellular stimuli working th...
ARL2BP: ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like proteins (ARLs) comprise a functionallydistinct group of the ARF family of RAS-related GTPases. The protein encodedby this ge...
ASNS: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of asparagine.This gene complem...
ATG4A: Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organellesare destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential forcell homeost...
ATP6V0A1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunitenzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles.V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellularprocesses as protein sorting, zymogen act...
BACH1: This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the cap''n''collartype of basic region leucine zipper factor family (CNC-bZip). The encodedprotein contains broad comp...
BCAM: This gene encodes Lutheran blood group glycoprotein, a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily and a receptor for the extracellular matrix protein,laminin. The protein contains five extracellular ...
BLVRA: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biliverdin reductasefamily, members of wh...
BLVRB: The final step in heme metabolism in mam...
BMP2K: This gene is the human homolog of mouse BMP-2-inducible kinase. Bonemorphogenic proteins (BMPs) play a key role in skeletal development and patterning.Expression o...
BNIP3L: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamilywithin the Bcl-2 f...
BPGM: 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a small molecule found at high concentrationsin red blood cells where it binds to and decreases the oxygen affinity ofhemoglob...
BSG: The protein encoded by this gene, basigin, is a plasma membrane proteinthat is important in spermatogene...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family.This fa...
BTRC: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box),which function in phosphorylation-d...
C3: Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complementsystem. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complementactivation p...
CA1: Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes thatcatalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in avariety of biological processes, including respiration, ca...
CA2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonicanhydrase, which...
CAST: The protein encoded by this gene is an endogenous calpain (calcium-dependentcysteine protease) inhibitor. It consists of an N-terminal domain L and fourrepetitive calpain-in...
CAT: This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defenseagainst oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in theperoxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catala...
CCDC28A: This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain containing protein. Althoughthe specific function of this gene has no...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclinfamily, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in proteinabundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.Differ...
CDC27: The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomycescerevisiae protein Cdc27, and the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombenuc 2. This protein is a component of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC),which is composed of eight ...
CDR2: Predicted to be located...
CIR1: Enables histone deacetylase binding activity; protein kinase bindingactivity; and transcri...
CLCN3: This gene encodes a member of the voltage-gated chloride channel (ClC)family. The encoded protein is present in all cell types and localized inplasma membranes and in intracellular vesicles. It is a multi-pass membraneprotein which contains a ClC domain and t...
CLIC2: This gene encodes a chloride intracellular channel protein. Chloridechannels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fun...
CPOX: The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosyntheticpathway. The encoded enzyme...
CROCCP2: Predicted to be involved in centrosom...
CTNS: This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane domain protein that functionsto transport cystine ou...
CTSB: This gene encodes a member of the C1 family of peptidases. Alternativesplicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. At least oneof these variants encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate multiple protein products. These products include the cathepsinB light and h...
CTSE: This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. Alternativesplicing of this gene results in multiple transcript v...
DAAM1: Cell motility, adhesion, cytokinesis, and other functions of the cellcortex are mediated by reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and severalformin homology (FH) proteins have been associated with these processes. Theprotein encoded by...
DCAF10: Predicted to be involved in protein ubi...
DCAF11: This gene encodes a WD repeat-containing protein that interacts withthe COP9 signalosome...
DCUN1D1: Enables cullin family protein binding activity. Involved in positive...
DMTN: The protein encoded by this gene is an actin binding and bundling proteinthat plays a structural role in erythrocytes, by stabilizing and attachingthe spectrin/actin cytoskeleton to the erythrocyte membrane in a phosphorylation-dependentmanner. ...
E2F2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the E2F family of transcriptionfactors. The E2F family plays a crucial role in the control of cell cycleand action of tumor suppressor proteins and is also a target of the transformingproteins of small DN...
EIF2AK1: The protein encoded by this gene acts at the level of translationinitiation to do...
ELL2: Involved in snRNA transcription by RNA polymer...
ENDOD1: Predicted to enable endonuclease activity; metal ion binding activity;a...
EPB41: The protein encoded by this gene, together with spectrin and actin,constitute the red cell membrane cyto...
EPB42: Erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.2 is an ATP-binding protein whichmay regulate the association of protein 3 with ankyrin....
EPOR: This gene encodes the erythropoietin receptor which is a member of thecytokine receptor family. Upon erythropoietin binding, this receptor activatesJak2 tyrosine kinase...
ERMAP: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface transmembrane proteinthat may act as an ...
EZH1: EZH1 is a component of a noncanonical Polycomb repressive complex-2(PRC2) th...
FBXO34: Members of the F-box protein family, such as FBXO34, are characterizedby an approximately 40-amino acid F-box motif. ...
FBXO7: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligas...
FBXO9: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterizedby an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constituteone of the four subunits of the...
FECH: The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion,where it catalyzes the insertion of the fe...
FN3K: A high concentration of glucose can result in non-enzymatic oxidationof proteins by reaction ...
FOXJ2: Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymeraseII-specific; RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specifi...
FOXO3: This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors whichare characterized by a distinct forkhead d...
FTCD: The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that channels1-carbon units from formi...
GAPVD1: Enables GTPase activating protein binding activity and guanyl...
GATA1: This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcriptionfactors. The ...
GCLC: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetaseis the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme c...
GCLM: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase,is the first rate limiting enzyme of gluta...
GDE1: Predicted to enable glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase activity;glycerophosphoinositol glyceroph...
GLRX5: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein, which is evolutionarilyconserved. It is ...
GMPS: In the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides, IMP is the branch pointmetabolite at which point the pathway diver...
GYPA: Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of thehuman erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MNand Ss b...
GYPB: Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of thehuman erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MNand Ss blood groups. GYPB gene consists of 5 exons and has 97...
GYPC: Glycophorin C (GYPC) is an integral membrane glycoprotein. It is a minorspecies carried by human erythrocytes, but plays an important role in regulatingthe mech...
GYPE: The protein encoded by this gene is a sialoglycoprotein and a type Imembrane protein. It is a member of a gene family with GPA an...
H1-0: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approxim...
H4C3: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosomestructure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each ofthe four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) fo...
HAGH: The enzyme encoded by this gene is classified as a thiolesterase andis r...
HBB: The alpha (HBA) and beta (HBB) loci determine the structure of the 2types of polypeptide chains in adult hemoglobin, Hb A. The normal a...
HBBP1: INTERACTS WITH...
HBD: The delta (HBD) and beta (HBB) genes are normally expressed in the adult:two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult...
HBQ1: Theta-globin mRNA is found in human fetal erythroid tissue but not inadult erythroid or other nonerythroid tissue. The theta-1 gene may be expressedvery early in emb...
HBZ: Zeta-globin is an alpha-like hemoglobin. The zeta-globin polypeptideis synthesized in the yolk sac of the early emb...
HDGF: This gene encodes a member of the hepatoma-derived growth factor family.The encoded protein has mitogenic and DNA-binding activity and may p...
HEBP1: The full-length protein encoded by this gene is an intracellular tetrapyrrole-bindingprotein. This...
HMBS: This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily.The encoded protein is the third enzyme of the heme ...
HTATIP2: Enables protein serine/threonine kinase activity. Involved in importinto nucleus and regulation ...
HTRA2: This gene encodes a serine protease. The protein has been localizedin the endoplasmic reticulum and interacts with an alternatively spliced formof mitogen-acti...
ICAM4: This gene encodes the Landsteiner-Wiener (LW) blood group antigen(s)that belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily, and that shares similarity...
IGSF3: The protein encoded by this gene is an immunoglobulin-like membr...
ISCA1: ISCA1 is a mitochondrial protein involved in the biogenesi...
KAT2B: CBP and p300 are large nuclear proteins that bind to many sequence-specificfactors involved in cell growth and/or differentiation, including c-jun...
KDM7A: Enables histone demethylase activity; methylated histone binding activi...
KEL: This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that is the highlypolymorphic Kell blood gro...
KHNYN: The protein encoded by this gene contains a ribonuclease NYN domainand be...
KLF1: This gene encodes a hematopoietic-specific transcription factor thatinduces high-level expression...
KLF3: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding act...
LAMP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of membraneglycoproteins. This glycoprotein prov...
LMO2: LMO2 encodes a cysteine-rich, two LIM-domain protein that is requiredfor yolk sac erythropoiesis. The LMO2 protein has a central and crucia...
LPIN2: Mouse studies suggest that this gene functions during normal adiposetissue developmen...
LRP10: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor fa...
MAP2K3: The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinasethat belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated bymitogenic and environmental stress, and participates in the MAP kinase-mediated...
MARCHF2: MARCH2 is a member of the MARCH family of membrane-bound E3 ubiquitinligases (EC 6.3.2.19). MARCH enzymes add ubiquitin (see MIM 19...
MARCHF8: MARCH8 is a member of the MARCH family of membrane-bound E3 ubiquitinligases (EC 6.3.2.19). MARCH enzymes add u...
MARK3: The protein encoded by this gene is activated by phosphorylation and...
MBOAT2: Enables 1-acylglycerophosphocholine O-acyltransferase activity; 1-acylglycerophosphoethanolamineO-acyltransferase activity; ...
MFHAS1: Identified in a human 8p amplicon, this gene is a potential oncogenewhose expression is enhanced in some malignant fibrous hist...
MGST3: This gene encodes a member of the MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteinsin Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) protein family. Members...
MINPP1: This gene encodes multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase; anenzyme that removes 3-phosphate from inositol phosphate substr...
MKRN1: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a novel class of zinc fingerproteins. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional co-regulator,and as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that promotes the ubiquitination and proteasomaldegr...
MOCOS: This gene encodes an enzyme that sulfurates the molybdenum cofactorwhich is required for activation of the xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) and aldehydeoxidase (AO) enzymes. XDH catalyzes the conv...
MOSPD1: Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription byRNA polymeras...
MPP1: This gene encodes the prototype of the membrane-associated guanylatekinase (MAGUK) family proteins. MAGUKs interact with the cytoskeleton andregulate cell proliferation, signaling pathways, and intercellular junc...
MXI1: Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcriptionfactor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulatedin human cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcripti...
MYL4: Myosin is a hexameric ATPase cellular motor protein. It is composedof two myosin heavy chains, two nonphosphoryla...
NARF: Several proteins have been found to be prenylated and methylated attheir carboxyl-terminal ends. Prenylation was initially believed to be importantonly for membrane attachment. However, another role for prenylation appearsto be its importance in protein-protein interactions. The only nuclear proteinskn...
NCOA4: This gene encodes an androgen receptor coactivator. The encoded proteininteracts with the androgen receptor in a ligand-dependen...
NEK7: NIMA-related kinases share high amino acid sequence i...
NFE2: Enables several functions, including WW domain binding activity; identicalprotein binding activity; and protein N-terminus binding activity. Contributesto ci...
NFE2L1: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in globin gene expressionin eryt...
NNT: This gene encodes an integral protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane.The enzyme couples hydride transfer between ...
NR3C1: This gene encodes glucocorticoid receptor, which can function bothas a transcription factor that binds to glucocorticoid response elements inthe promoters of glucocorticoid responsive genes to activate their transcription,and as a regulator of other tran...
NUDT4: The protein encoded by this gene regulates the turnover of diphosphoinositolpolyphosphates. The turnover of these high-energy diphosphoinositol polyphosphatesrepresents a molecular sw...
OPTN: This gene encodes the coiled-coil containing protein optineurin. Optineurinmay play a role in normal-tension glaucoma and adult-onset primary open angleglaucoma. Optineurin int...
OSBP2: The protein encoded by this gene contains a pleckstrin homology (PH)domain and an o...
P4HA2: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
PC: This gene encodes pyruvate carboxylase, which requires biotin and ATPto catalyse the carboxylation of pyruvate to oxaloacetate. The active enzymeis a homotetrame...
PDZK1IP1: Located in extracellul...
PGLS: Enables 6-phosphogluconolactonase activity....
PICALM: This gene encodes a clathrin assembly protein, which recruits clathrinand adaptor protein complex 2 (AP2) to cell membranes at sites of coated-pitformation and clathrin-vesicle assembly. The protein may be required to...
PIGQ: This gene is involved in the first step in glycosylphosphatidylinositol(GPI)-anchor biosynthesis. The GPI-anchor is a glycolipid found on ...
PPOX: This gene encodes the penultimate enzyme of heme biosynthesis, whichcatalyzes the 6-electron oxidation of protoporphyrinogen IX...
PPP2R5B: The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2A regulatorysubunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thrphosphatases, an...
PRDX2: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidantenzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encodedprotein plays an antioxidant protectiv...
PSMD9: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 ...
RAD23A: The protein encoded by this gene is one of two human homologs of Saccharomycescerevisiae Rad23, a protein involved in nucleotide excision repair. Proteins...
RANBP10: RAN is a small GTPase involved in the assembly of microtubules toform mitotic spindles. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic guaninenucl...
RAP1GAP: This gene encodes a type of GTPase-activating-protein (GAP) thatdown-regulates the activity of the ras-related RAP1 protein. RAP1 acts asa molecular switch by cycling between an inactive GDP-bound form and an activeGTP-bound form. T...
RBM38: Enables mRNA 3''-UTR binding activity. Involved in DNA damage response,signa...
RBM5: This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor gene which encodes a nuclearRNA binding protein that is a component of the spliceosome A complex. ...
RCL1: Predicted to enable endoribonuclease activity. Predicted to be involvedin endonucleolytic cleavage of tricistronic rRNA transcript (SSU-rRNA, 5.8SrRNA,...
RHAG: The protein encoded by this gene is erythrocyte-specific and is thoughtto be part of a membrane channel tha...
RHCE: The Rh blood group system is the second most clinically significantof the blood groups, second only to ABO. It is also the most polymorphic ofthe blood groups, with variations due to deletions, gene c...
RHD: The Rh blood group system is the second most clinically significant ofthe blood groups, second only to ABO. It is also the most polymorphic of theblood groups, with variations due to deletions, gene ...
RIOK3: This gene was first identified by the similarity of its product tothe Aspergillus nidulans SUDD protein. This gene...
RNF123: The protein encoded by this gene contains a C-terminal RING fingerdomain, a motif present in a variety of functionally dis...
RNF19A: This gene encodes a member of the ring between ring fingers (RBR)protein family, and the encoded protein contains two RING-finger motifs ...
SDCBP: The protein encoded by this gene was initially identified as a moleculelinking syndecan-mediated signaling to the cytoskeleton. The syntenin proteincontains tandemly repeated PDZ domains that bind t...
SEC14L1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SEC14 cytosolic factorfamily. It has similarity to yeast SEC14 and t...
SELENBP1: This gene encodes a member of the selenium-binding protein family.Selenium is an essential nutrient that exhibits potent anticarcinogenic properties,and deficiency of seleni...
SIDT2: Predicted to enable several functions, including AP-1 adaptor complexbinding ...
SLC10A3: This gene maps to a GC-rich region of the X chromosome and was identi...
SLC11A2: This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 11 proteinfamily. The product of this gene transports divale...
SLC22A4: Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine,and other organs are critical for elimination of many en...
SLC25A37: SLC25A37 is a solute carrier localized in the mitochondrial innerme...
SLC25A38: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encodedprotein is required durin...
SLC2A1: This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brainbarrier. The encoded prot...
SLC30A1: Predicted to enable calcium channel inhibitor activity and zinc iontransmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in sever...
SLC30A10: This gene is highly expressed in the liver and is inducible by manganese.Its protein product appears to be crit...
SLC4A1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of the anion exchanger (AE)family and is expressed in the erythrocyte plasma membrane, where it functionsas a chloride/bicarbonate exchanger involved in carbon dioxide transport fromtissues to lungs. The protein comprises two domains that are structurallyand functionally distinct. The N-terminal 40kDa domain is located in the cytoplasmand acts as an attachment site for the red cell skeleton by bin...
SLC66A2: Predicted to be involved in phospholipid translocation and retrogradetranspo...
SLC6A8: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein whosefunction is to ...
SLC6A9: The amino acid glycine acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in ...
SLC7A11: This gene encodes a member of a heteromeric, sodium-independent,anionic amino acid transport system that is highly specific for cysteine andglutamate. In this syst...
SMOX: Polyamines are ubiquitous polycationic alkylamines which include spermine,spermidine, putrescine, and agmatine. These molecules participate in a broadrange of cellular functions which include cell cycle modulation, scavengingreactive oxygen species, and the control of gene ex...
SNCA: Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includesbeta- and gamma-synuclein. Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brainand alpha-...
SPTA1: This gene encodes a member of a family of molecular scaffold proteinsthat link the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton and functions in thedetermina...
SPTB: This locus encodes a member of the spectrin gene family. Spectrin proteins,along with ankyrin, play a role in cell membr...
SYNJ1: This gene encodes a phosphoinositide phosphatase that regulates levelsof membrane phos...
TAL1: Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factoractivity; E-box binding activity; and histone deacetylase bind...
TCEA1: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity; translation elongation factoractivity; and zinc ion binding activity. Predict...
TENT5C: Enables RNA adenylyltransferase activity. ...
TFDP2: The gene is a member of the transcription factor DP family. The encodedprote...
TFRC: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor necessary for cellular ironuptake...
TMCC2: Involved in amyloid precursor protein...
TMEM9B: Involved in positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB sig...
TNRC6B: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in regulation of gene expression...
TNS1: The protein encoded by this gene localizes to focal adhesions, regionsof the plasma membrane where the cell attaches to...
TOP1: This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and altersthe topologic states of DNA during tr...
TRAK2: Predicted to enable GABA receptor binding activity and myosin bindingactivity. Predicted to be involved in ...
TRIM10: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-bindin...
TRIM58: Predicted to enable dynein heavy chain binding activity; dynein intermediatechain binding activity; and ubi...
TSPAN5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane4 superfamily, also known as the tetras...
TSPO2: Predicted to enable cholesterol binding activity. Invo...
TYR: The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first 2 steps, and at least1 subsequent step, in the conversion of tyrosine to ...
UBAC1: Predicted to be involved in protein ubiqui...
UCP2: Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger familyof mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylationfrom ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as themitocho...
UROD: This gene encodes an enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. This enzymeis responsible for cata...
UROS: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth step of...
USP15: This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin specific protease (USP)family of deubiquitinating enzymes. USP enzymes play critical roles in ubiquitin-dependentprocesses thro...
VEZF1: Transcriptional regulatory proteins containing tandemly repeated zincfinger domains are though...
XK: This locus controls the synthesis of the Kell blood group ''precursorsubstance'' (Kx). Mutations in this g...
XPO7: The transport of protein and large RNAs through the nuclear pore complexes(NPC) is an energy-dependent and regulated process. The import of p...
YPEL5: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Pr...
////
ACKR3: This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family.Although this protein was earlier thought to be a rec...
ADM: The protein encoded by this gene is a preprohormone which is cleavedto form two biologically active peptides, adrenomedullin and ...
ADORA2B: This gene encodes an adenosine receptor that is a member of the Gprotein-coupled receptor superfamily...
AK4: This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family of enzymes.The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondrial matrix. Adenylate kinasesregulate the adenine and guanine nucleotide com...
AKAP12: The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverseproteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunitof protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discre...
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolaseprotein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe reversible conversion of fructose-1,6...
ALDOB: Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) is a tetrameric glycolyticenzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphateto glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Vertebrateshave 3 aldolase isozymes which are dist...
ALDOC: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-biphosphate aldolasegene family. Expressed specifically in th...
AMPD3: This gene encodes a member of the AMP deaminase gene family. The encodedprotein is a highly regulated enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic deaminationof adenosine monophos...
ANGPTL4: This gene encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein containing a C-terminalfibrinogen domain. The encoded protein is induced by peroxisome proliferationactivators and functions as a serum hormone that reg...
ANKZF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activit...
ANXA2: This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependentphospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellulargrowth...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcriptionfactor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription...
ATP7A: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions in coppertransport across membranes. This protein is localized to the trans Golgi network,where it...
B3GALT6: The enzyme encoded by this intronless gene is a beta-1,3-galactosyltransferasefound in the medial Golgi apparatus, wh...
B4GALNT2: B4GALNT2 catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of the humanSd(a) antigen through the addition o...
BCAN: This gene encodes a member of the lectican family of chondroitin sulfateproteoglycans that is specifically expressed in...
BCL2: This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein thatblocks the apoptotic death ...
BGN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP)family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processedto genera...
BHLHE40: This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in varioustissues. The encoded pr...
BNIP3L: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamilywithin the Bcl-2 f...
BRS3: The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled membrane receptorthat binds bom...
BTG1: This gene is a member of an anti-proliferative gene family that regulatescell growth and differentiation. Expression of this gene is hi...
CA12: Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymesthat catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participatein a variety of biological pro...
CASP6: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family of enzymes. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central rolein the execution-phase...
CAV1: The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component ofthe caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein linksintegrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiati...
CAVIN1: This gene encodes a protein that enables the dissociation of pausedternary polymerase I transcription complexes from the 3'' end of pre-rRNAtranscripts. This protein regulates rRNA transcription by promoting the dissociationof transcripti...
CAVIN3: The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a binding proteinof the protein kinase C, delta (P...
CCN1: The secreted protein encoded by this gene is growth factor-inducibleand promotes the adhesion of...
CCN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen that is secreted by vascularendothelial cells. The enco...
CCN5: This gene encodes a member of the WNT1 inducible signaling pathway (WISP)protein subfamily, which belongs to the connective tissue growth factor (CTGF)family. WNT1 is a member of a family of cysteine-rich, glycosylated signalingproteins that mediate diverse developme...
CCNG2: The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases(CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The 8species of cycl...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulatorof cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of th...
CDKN1B: This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which sharesa limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein bindsto and prevent...
CDKN1C: This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternalallele. The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inh...
CHST2: This locus encodes a sulfotransferase protein. The encoded en...
CHST3: This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the sulfation of chondroitin,a proteogly...
CITED2: The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-inducedgenes by competin...
COL5A1: This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillarcollagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed ofone or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues c...
CP: The protein encoded by this gene is a metalloprotein that binds most ofthe copper in plasma and is involved in the peroxidat...
CSRP2: CSRP2 is a member of the CSRP family of genes, encoding a group ofLIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory process...
CXCR4: This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derivedfactor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is loca...
DCN: This gene encodes a member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan familyof proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants,at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that...
DDIT3: This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP)family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negativeinhibitor by forming heterodimers with other...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involv...
DPYSL4: Enables filamin binding activity. Predicted to...
DTNA: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dystrobrevin subfamilyof the dystrophin family. This protein is a component of the dystrophin-associatedprotein complex (DPC), which co...
DUSP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatase with dual specificityfor tyrosine and threonine. The encoded protein can dephosphorylate MAP kina...
EDN2: This gene encodes a member of the endothelin protein family of secretoryvasoconstrictive peptides. The preproprotein is processed to a ...
EFNA1: This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrinsand EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosinekinases and have been implicated in mediating ...
EFNA3: This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrinsand EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosinekin...
EGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein thatis a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptorfor members of the epidermal...
ENO1: This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes foundin mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or2 beta subunits, and functi...
ENO2: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This i...
ENO3: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Involved in c...
ERRFI1: ERRFI1 is a cytoplasmic protein whose expression is upregulated withcell growth (Wick et al., 1...
ETS1: This gene encodes a member of the ETS family of transcription factors,which are defined by the presence of a conserved ETS DNA-binding dom...
EXT1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum-resident type II transmem...
F3: This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, andit functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiationof the coagulati...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-typeendopeptidase...
FBP1: Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1, a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme,catalyzes...
FOS: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  Thesegenes encode leucine zipper proteins that c...
FOSL2: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.These genes encode leucin...
FOXO3: This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors whichare characterized by a distinct forkhead d...
GAA: This gene encodes lysosomal alpha-glucosidase, which is essential forthe degradation of glycogen to glucose in lysosomes. The encoded ...
GALK1: Galactokinase is a major enzyme for the metabolism of...
GAPDH: This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenaseprotein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlightingprotein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions.The product of this gene catalyzes an important energy-yielding ...
GAPDHS: This gene encodes a protein belonging to the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatedehydrogenase family of enzymes that play an important role in carbohydratemetabolism....
GBE1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen branching enzyme thatcatalyzes the transfer of alpha-1,4-linked glucosyl units from the outer endof a gly...
GCK: This gene encodes a member of the hexokinase family of proteins. Hexokinasesphosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in mostglucose metabolism pathways. In contrast to other forms of hexokinas...
GCNT2: This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for formation of the bloodgroup I antigen. The i and I antigens are distinguished by linear and branchedpoly-N-ace...
GLRX: This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded proteinis a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reduction of glutat...
GPC1: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variab...
GPC3: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains.Members of the glypican-related integral membrane pr...
GPC4: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate ...
GPI: This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase proteinfamily. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting proteinbased on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In thecytoplasm, the gene product functions as a glycolytic en...
GRHPR: This gene encodes an enzyme with hydroxypyruvate reductase, glyoxylatereduct...
GYS1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the addition of glucose monomersto the growing glyco...
HAS1: Hyaluronan or hyaluronic acid (HA) is a high molecular weight unbranchedpolysaccharide synthesized by a wide variety of organisms from bacteria tomammals, and is a constituent of the extracellular matrix. It consists ofalternating glucuronic acid and N-acetylglucosamine residues that are linkedby beta-1-3 and beta-1-4 glycosidic bonds. HA is synthesized by membrane-boundsynthase at the inner surf...
HDLBP: The protein encoded by this gene binds high density lipoprotein...
HEXA: This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 20 family of proteins.The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the alphasubunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminida...
HK1: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thefirst step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene ...
HK2: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thefirst step in most glucose metabolism pathways....
HMOX1: Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves hemeto form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bil...
HOXB9: This gene is a member of the Abd-B homeobox family and encodes a proteinwith a homeobox DNA-binding domain. It is includ...
HS3ST1: Heparan sulfate biosynthetic enzymes are key components in generatinga myriad of distinct heparan sulfate fine structures that carry out multi...
HSPA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein70 (HSP70) family. This protein localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum (ER) where it operates as a typical HSP70 chaperone involved inthe folding and assembly of proteins in the ER and is a master regu...
IDS: This gene encodes a member of the sulfatase family of proteins. The encodedpreproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate two polypeptide c...
IER3: This gene functions in the protection of cells from Fas- or tumor necrosisfactor...
IGFBP1: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP N-terminal domain and athyroglobulin ty...
IGFBP3: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP domain and a thyroglobulint...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with a...
ILVBL: The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with several thiaminepyrophosphate-bindin...
INHA: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processedto generate multipl...
IRS2: This gene encodes the insulin receptor substrate 2, a cytoplasmic signalingmolecule that mediates effects of insulin, insulin-lik...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. Involvedin defe...
JMJD6: This gene encodes a nuclear protein with a JmjC domain. JmjC domain-containingproteins are predicted to function as protein hydroxylases or histone dem...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17.It encodes a protein which is high...
KDELR3: This gene encodes a member of the KDEL endoplasmic reticulum proteinretention receptor family. Retention of resident soluble proteins in the lumenof the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is achieved in both yeast and animal cellsby their continual retrieval...
KDM3A: This gene encodes a zinc finger protein that contains a jumo...
KIF5A: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin family of proteins. Membersof this...
KLF6: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcriptionfactors. The zinc...
KLF7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Kruppel-like transcriptionalregulator family. Members in this family regulate cell proliferation, differentiatio...
KLHL24: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitin ligase substrate receptorand is regulated by autoubiquitination. Variations in the translation initiationco...
LALBA: This gene encodes alpha-lactalbumin, a principal protein of milk. Alpha-lactalbuminforms the regulatory subunit of the lactose synthase (LS) heterodimer a...
LARGE1: This gene encodes a member of the N-acetylglucosaminyltransferasegene family. It encodes a glycosyltransferase which participates in glycosylationof alpha-dystroglycan, and may carry out the synthesis of glycoprotein a...
LDHA: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactateand NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic g...
LDHC: Lactate dehydrogenase C catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NADto pyruvate and...
LOX: This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase family of proteins. Alternativesplicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which en...
LXN: This gene encodes the only known protein inhibitor of zinc-dependentmetallocarbox...
MAFF: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcriptionfactor that lacks a transactivation domain. It is known to bind the US-2 DNAelement in the promoter...
MAP3K1: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase andis part of some signal transduction cascades, including the ERK and J...
MIF: This gene encodes a lymphokine involved in cell-mediated immunity, immunoregulation,and inflammation. It plays a role...
MT1E: Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Involved...
MT2A: This gene is a member of the metallothionein family of genes. Proteinsencoded by this gene family are low in molecular weight, are cysteine-rich,lack aromatic residues, and bind divalent heavy metal ...
MXI1: Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcriptionfactor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulatedin human cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcripti...
MYH9: This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein shouldnot be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9B).The encoded protein is a myosin...
NAGK: This gene encodes a member of the N-acetylhexosamine kinase family.The...
NCAN: Neurocan is a chondroitin sulfate prot...
NDRG1: This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family whichbelongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by thisgene is a cytoplasmic ...
NDST1: This gene encodes a member of the heparan sulfate/heparin GlcNAc N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase family. The en...
NDST2: This gene encodes a member of the N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferasesubfamily of the ...
NEDD4L: This gene encodes a member of the Nedd4 family of HECT domain E3 ubiquitinligases. HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases transfer ubiquitin from E2 ubiquitin-conjugatingenzymes to protei...
NFIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator thatbinds as a homodimer to activating tra...
NOCT: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Nocturnin, a geneidentified as a circadian clock regulated gene in Xenopus la...
NR3C1: This gene encodes glucocorticoid receptor, which can function bothas a transcription factor that binds to glucocorticoid response elements inthe promoters of glucocorticoid responsive genes to activate their transcription,and as a regulator of other tran...
P4HA1: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
P4HA2: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two betasubunits. The enc...
PAM: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein. The encoded preproproteinis proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme includestwo domains wi...
PCK1: This gene is a main control point for the regulation of gluconeogenesis.The cytosolic enzyme encoded by this gene, along with GTP, catalyzes...
PDGFB: This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of bothplatelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors(VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generatepla...
PDK1: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is a mitochondrial multienzyme complexthat catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and is one of...
PDK3: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrialmultienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoAand CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and ...
PFKFB3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of bifunctionalproteins that are involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate,a regulatory molecule that controls glycolys...
PFKL: This gene encodes the liver (L) subunit of an enzyme that catalyzesthe conversion of D-fructose 6-phospha...
PFKP: This gene encodes a member of the phosphofructokinase A protein family.The encoded enzyme is the platelet-specific ...
PGAM2: Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) catalyzes the reversible reaction of3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycol...
PGF: This gene encodes a growth factor found in placenta which is ...
PGK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encodedprotein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. Additionally, t...
PGM1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of phosphoglucomutase(PGM) and belongs to the phosphohexose mutase family. There are several PGMisozymes, which are enc...
PGM2: Enables phosphopentomutase activity. Predicted to be involved in carbohydrat...
PHKG1: This gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodesa protein with one protein kinase domain and two calmodulin-binding d...
PIM1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoidand myeloid cell lines, and is overexpressed ...
PKLR: The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzesthe transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into...
PKP1: This gene encodes a member of the arm-repeat (armadillo) and plakophilingene families. Plakophilin proteins contain numerous armadillo repeats, localiz...
PLAC8: Predicted to enable chromatin binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenes...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surfaceplasminogen activation and localized...
PLIN2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the perilipin family, membersof which coat intracellular lipid storage droplets. This protein is associatedwith the lipid globule surface membrane material, an...
PNRC1: Predicted to be active...
PPARGC1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional coactivatorthat regulates the genes involved in energy metabolism. This protein interactswith PPARgamma, which permits the interaction of th...
PPFIA4: PPFIA4, or liprin-alpha-4, belongs to the li...
PPP1R15A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful ...
PPP1R3C: This gene encodes a carbohydrate binding protein that is a subunitof the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) complex. PP1 catalyzes reversible proteinphosphorylation, w...
PRDX5: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidantenzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encodedprotein interacts with pe...
PRKCA: Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specificprotein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messengerdiacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of proteintargets and are known ...
PYGM: This gene encodes a muscle enzyme involved in glycogenolysis. Highlysimilar enzymes encoded b...
RBPJ: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator importantin the Notch signaling pathway. The encoded protein acts as a repressor whe...
RORA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the NR1 subfamily ofnuclear hormone receptors. It can bind as a monomer or as a homodimer to hormoneresponse elements upstream of ...
RRAGD: RRAGD is a monomeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein,...
S100A4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family ofproteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localizedin the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a w...
SAP30: Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryoticgene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed ...
SCARB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane receptor forhigh density lipoprot...
SDC2: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.The syndecans media...
SDC3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the syndecan proteoglycanfamily. It may play a...
SDC4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparansulfate proteoglycan that ...
SELENBP1: This gene encodes a member of the selenium-binding protein family.Selenium is an essential nutrient that exhibits potent anticarcinogenic properties,and deficiency of seleni...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin)superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue ...
SIAH2: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the seven in absentiahomolog (SIAH) famil...
SLC25A1: This gene encodes a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamilyof solute carrier proteins. Members of this family include nuclear-encodedtransporters ...
SLC2A1: This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brainbarrier. The encoded prot...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity; and glucose transmemb...
SLC2A5: The protein encoded by this gene is a fructose transporter responsib...
SLC37A4: This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasmto the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in ord...
SLC6A6: This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is a member ofa family of sodium...
SRPX: Predicted to be an extracellular matrix structural constituent. Predictedto be involved in cell adhesion. Predicted to a...
STBD1: Enables enzyme binding activity and glycogen binding activity. Involvedin g...
STC1: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The gene contains a 5'' UTR rich in CAG trinucle...
STC2: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The encoded protein has 10 of its 15 cysteine residues conserved among stanni...
SULT2B1: Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of manyhormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolicenzy...
TES: Cancer-associated chromosomal changes often involve regions containingfragile sites. This gene maps to a commom fragile site on chromosome 7q31.2designated FRA7G. This gene is similar to mouse Testin, a t...
TGFB3: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcriptionfactors that regu...
TGFBI: This gene encodes an RGD-containing protein that binds to type I, IIand IV collagens. The RGD motif is found in many extracellular matrix proteins...
TGM2: Transglutaminases are enzymes that catalyze the crosslinking of proteinsby epsilon-gamma glutamyl lysine isopeptide bonds. While the primary structureof tran...
TIPARP: This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase superfamily.Studies...
TKTL1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transketolase that acts as ahomodimer and catalyzes the conversion of sedoheptulose 7-ph...
TMEM45A: Predicted to be integral c...
TNFAIP3: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly inducedby the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The protein encoded by this gene is a...
TPBG: This gene encodes a leucine-rich transmembrane glycoprotein that maybe involved in cell adhesion. The encoded prote...
TPD52: Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimeriza...
TPI1: This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, whichcatalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehyd...
TPST2: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the O-sulfation of tyrosineresidues wi...
UGP2: The enzyme encoded by this gene is an important intermediary in mammaliancarbohydrate interconversions. It transfers a glucose moiety from glucose-1-...
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodesa heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. Thisgrowth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelialcells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis.Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vesselformation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expressionis correlated with tumor stage...
VHL: This gene encodes a component of a ubiquitination complex. The encodedprotein is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible-factor(HIF), which is a tra...
VLDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of sp...
WSB1: This gene encodes a member of the WD-protein subfamily. This proteinshares a high sequence i...
XPNPEP1: This gene encodes the cytosolic form of a metalloaminopeptidase thatcatalyzes the cleavage of...
ZFP36: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity;heat shock protein binding activity; and mRNA 3''-UTR AU-rich region bindingac...
ZNF292: This gene encodes a growth hormone-dependent, zinc finger transcriptionf...
////
ABCA1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvariou...
ABI1: This gene encodes a member of the Abelson-interactor family of adaptorproteins. These proteins facilitate signal transduction as components of severalmultiprotein complexes, and regulate actin ...
ACVR1B: This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimericgrowth and differentiation factors which belong to...
ACVR2A: This gene encodes a receptor that mediates the functions of activins,which are members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamilyinvolved in diverse biological pro...
ADGRE1: This gene encodes a protein that has a domain resembling seven transmembraneG protein-coupled hormone receptors...
ADM: The protein encoded by this gene is a preprohormone which is cleavedto form two biologically active pep...
ADORA2B: This gene encodes an adenosine receptor that is a member of the Gprotein-coupled...
ADRM1: This gene encodes a member of the adhesion regulating molecule 1 proteinfamily. The encoded protein is a component of...
AHR: The protein encoded by this gene is a ligand-activated helix-loop-helixtranscription factor involved...
APLNR: This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor gene family.The encoded protein is related to the angiotensin recep...
AQP9: The aquaporins are a family of water-selective membrane channels. Thisgene encodes a member of a subset of aquaporins cal...
ATP2A2: This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellularpumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of the skeletalmuscle. This enzym...
ATP2B1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primaryion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphateintermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes r...
ATP2C1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cationtransport AT...
AXL: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Tyro3-Axl-Mer (TAM)receptor tyrosine kinase subfamily. The encoded protein possesses an extracellulardomain...
BDKRB1: Bradykinin, a 9 aa peptide, is generated in pathophysiologic conditionssuch as inflammation, trauma, burns, shock, and allergy. The p...
BEST1: This gene encodes a member of the bestrophin gene family. This smallgene family is characterized by proteins with a highly conserved N-terminuswith four to six transmembr...
BST2: Bone marrow stromal cells are involved in the growth and develo...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob ...
C3AR1: C3a is an anaphylatoxin released during activation of the complement...
C5AR1: Enables G protein-coupled receptor activity and complement componentC5a receptor activity. Involved in sev...
CALCRL: Enables adrenomedullin binding activity; adrenomedullin receptor activity;and calcitonin gene-related peptide ...
CCL17: This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genesclustered on the q arm of chromosome 16. Cytokines are a fami...
CCL2: This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. ...
CCL20: This antimicrobial gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokineCC genes. Cytokines are a family of ...
CCL22: This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genesclustered on the q arm of chromosome 16. Cytokines are a family of secretedproteins involved in immunoregul...
CCL24: This gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokinesare a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory...
CCL5: This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The sup...
CCL7: This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokinewhich attracts macrophages durin...
CCR7: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G protein-coupledreceptor family. This receptor was identified as a gene induced by the Epstein-Barrvirus (EBV), and is thoug...
CCRL2: This gene encodes a chemokine receptor like protein, which is predictedto be a seven transmembrane protein and most closely related...
CD14: The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentiallyexpressed on monocytes/macropha...
CD40: This gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded proteinis a receptor on antigen-presenting cells of the immune system and is essentialfor mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses i...
CD48: This gene encodes a member of the CD2 subfamily of immunoglobulin-likereceptors which includes SLAM (signaling lymphocyte activation molecu...
CD55: This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in the regulation of the complementcascade. Binding of the encoded prot...
CD69: This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamilyo...
CD70: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumornecrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This ...
CD82: This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein thatis a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily. Expres...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulat...
CHST2: This locus encodes a sulfotransferase protein. Th...
CLEC5A: This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-likedomain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this f...
CMKLR1: Enables adipokinetic hormone binding activity and adipokinetic hormonerecep...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production,differentiation, a...
CSF3: This gene encodes a member of the IL-6 superfamily of cytokines. Theencoded cytokine controls ...
CSF3R: The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulatingfactor 3, a cytokine that controls t...
CX3CL1: This gene belongs to the CX3C subgroup of chemokines, characterizedby the number of amino acids located between the conserved cysteine residues.This is the only member of the CX3C subgroup, whi...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily andligand for the rec...
CXCL11: Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostlybasic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of varioustypes of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane,G...
CXCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member CXC chemokine family.The en...
CXCL8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CXC chemokine familyand is a major mediator of the inflammatory response. The encoded proteinis commonly referred to as interleukin-8 (IL-8). IL-8 is secreted by mononuclearmacrophages, neutrophils, eosinophils, T lymphocytes, epithelial cells, andfibroblasts. It functions as a...
CXCL9: This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodessecr...
CXCR6: The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor withseven transmembrane domains that belongs to the CXC chemokine receptor family.This family also includes CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, CXCR5, and CXCR7. This...
CYBB: Cytochrome b (-245) is composed of cytochrome b alpha (CYBA) and beta(CYBB) chain. It has been proposed as a primary component of the m...
DCBLD2: Involved in negative regulation of cel...
EBI3: This gene was identified by its induced expression in B lymphocytesin response Epste...
EDN1: This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processedto generate a secreted pe...
EIF2AK2: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinasethat is activated by autophosp...
EMP3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 familyof prot...
EREG: This gene encodes a secreted peptide hormone and member of the epidermalgrowth factor (EGF) family of proteins. Th...
F3: This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, andit functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.The resulting complex provides a ca...
FFAR2: This gene encodes a member of the GP40 family of G protein-coupl...
FPR1: This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor of mammalian phago...
FZD5: Members of the ''frizzled'' gene family encode 7-...
GABBR1: This gene encodes a receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), whichis the main inhibitory neuro...
GCH1: This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family. The encodedprotein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrob...
GNA15: Enables G protein-coupled receptor binding activity. Involved in positive...
GNAI3: Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulatorsor transducers in various tr...
GP1BA: Glycoprotein Ib (GP Ib) is a platelet surface membrane glycoproteincomposed of a heterodimer, an alpha chain and a beta chain, that is linkedby disulfide bonds. The Gp Ib functions as a receptor for von Willeb...
GPC3: Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associatedprotein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains.Members of...
GPR132: This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein(G protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. The receptors are sev...
GPR183: This gene was identified by the up-regulation of its expression uponEpstein-Barr virus infection...
HAS2: Hyaluronan or hyaluronic acid (HA) is a high molecular weight unbranchedpolysaccharide synthesized by a wide variety of organisms from bacteria tomammals, and is a constituent of the extracellular matrix.  It consists ofalternating glucuronic acid and N-acetylglucosamine residues that are linked...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity and heparin binding activity. Involvedin several process...
HIF1A: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-induciblefactor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subu...
HPN: This gene encodes a type II transmembrane serine protease that may beinvolved in diverse cellular functions, includi...
HRH1: Histamine is a ubiquitous messenger molecule released from mast cells,enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Its various actions are mediatedby histamine receptors H1, H2, H3 and H4. The pr...
ICAM1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is t...
ICAM4: This gene encodes the Landsteiner-Wiener (LW) blood group antigen(s)that belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamil...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to b...
IFITM1: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon ind...
IFNAR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein thatforms one of the two...
IFNGR2: This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of thegamma interferon receptor. Hum...
IL10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine produced primarily bymonocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes. This cytokine has pleiotropiceffects in i...
IL10RA: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 10.This protein is structurally related to interferon receptors. It h...
IL12B: This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that actson T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities.Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer c...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T andnatural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine2 share many biological activities. They are...
IL15RA: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that specifically binds interleukin15 (IL15) with high affinity. The receptors of IL15 and IL2 share two subunits,IL2R beta an...
IL18: The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine of theIL-1 family that is constitutively found as a precursor within the cytoplasmof a...
IL18R1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that belongsto the interleukin 1 receptor family. This receptor specifica...
IL18RAP: The protein encoded by this gene is an accessory subunit of the heterodimericreceptor for interleukin 18 (IL18), a proinf...
IL1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved ...
IL1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokinefamily. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein,which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE).This cy...
IL1R1: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that belongs to the interleukin-1receptor family....
IL2RB: The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immuneresponses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit a...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. ...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen ...
IL7R: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 7 (IL7).The function of this receptor requires the in...
INHBA: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)superfamily of proteins. The encoded ...
IRAK2: IRAK2 encodes the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2, ...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innatean...
IRF7: This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferonregulatory transcript...
ITGA5: The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alphas...
ITGB3: The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrinsare integral cell-s...
ITGB8: This gene is a member of the integrin beta chain family and encodesa single-pass type I membrane protein with a VWFA domain...
KCNA3: Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gatedion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diversefunctions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insu...
KCNJ2: Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where theyparticipate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein enc...
KCNMB2: MaxiK channels are large conductance, voltage and calcium-sensitivepotassium channels which are fundamental to the control of smo...
KIF1B: This gene encodes a motor protein that t...
KLF6: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcription...
LAMP3: Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cell...
LCK: This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs).The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and m...
LCP2: This gene encodes an adapter protein that acts as a substrate of theT cell antigen receptor (TCR)-activated prot...
LDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specificligands. The enc...
LIF: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with rolesin several different systems. It is involv...
LPAR1: The integral membrane protein encoded by this gene is a lysophosphatidicacid (LPA) receptor from a group known as EDG re...
LTA: The encoded protein, a member of the tumor necrosis factor family, isa cytokine produced by lymphocytes. The protein is highly inducible, secreted,an...
LY6E: This gene belongs to the human Ly6 gene family and encodes a glycosylphosphati...
LYN: This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe ...
MARCO: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the class A scavengerreceptor family and is part of the innate antimicrobia...
MEFV: This gene encodes a protein, also known as pyrin or ...
MEP1A: Predicted to enable metalloendopeptidase a...
MET: This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family ofproteins and the product of the proto-oncogene MET. The encoded preproproteinis proteolytically processed to g...
MMP14: Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involvedin the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes,such as embryonic...
MSR1: This gene encodes the class A macrophage scavenger receptors, whichinclude three different types (1, 2, 3) generated by alternative splicingof this gene. These receptors or isoforms are macrophage-specific trimericintegral me...
MXD1: This gene encodes a member of the MYC/MAX/MAD network of basic helix-loop-helixleucine zipper transcription factors. The MYC/MAX/MAD trans...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein thatplays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.The encod...
NAMPT: This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the condensation of nicotinamidewith 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyro...
NDP: This gene encodes a secreted protein with a cystein-knot motif ...
NFKB1: This gene encodes a 105 kD protein which can undergo cotranslationalprocessing by the 26S proteasome to produce a 50 kD protein. The 105 kD proteinis a Rel protein-specific transcription inhibitor and the 50 kD protein isa...
NFKBIA: This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, whichcontain multiple ankrin repeat domains. Th...
NLRP3: This gene encodes a pyrin-like protein containing a pyrin domain, anucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif.This protein interacts with the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein PYCARD/ASC,which contains a caspase recruitment domain, and is a...
NMI: NMYC interactor (NMI) encodes a protein that interacts with NMYC andCMYC (two members of the oncogene Myc fa...
NMUR1: Enables neuromedin U binding activity and neuromedin U receptor...
NOD2: This gene is a member of the Nod1/Apaf-1 family and encodes a proteinwith two caspase recruitment (CARD) domains and six leucine-...
NPFFR2: This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of G-protein-coupled neurope...
OLR1: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs tothe C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated throu...
OPRK1: This gene encodes an opioid receptor, which is a member of the 7 transmembrane-spanningG protein-coupled receptor family. It functions as a receptor for endogenousligands, as well as a rec...
OSM: This gene encodes a member of the leukemia inhibitory factor/oncostatin-M(LIF/OSM) family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolyticallyprocessed to generate the m...
OSMR: This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family. Theencoded protein heterodimerizes with interleuk...
P2RX4: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors forATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated...
P2RX7: The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors forATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated i...
P2RY2: The product of this gene belongs to the family of P2 receptors, whichis activated by extracellular nucleotides and subdivided into P2X ligand-gated...
PCDH7: This gene belongs to the protocadherin gene family, a subfamily ofthe cadherin su...
PDE4B: This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclicnucleotide phosphodiesterase (PD...
PDPN: This gene encodes a type-I integral membrane glycoprotein with diversedistribution in human tissues. The physiolo...
PIK3R5: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate the inositolring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position, and play important rolesin cell growth, proliferation, ...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activatorand, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likelyinfluences many normal and pathological processes related to...
PROK2: This gene encodes a protein expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus(SCN) circadian clock that may function as the output component of the...
PSEN1: Alzheimer''s disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the diseasecarry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloidprecursor protein (APP). Thes...
PTAFR: This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptorfor platelet-activating factor (PAF) that localizes to lipid rafts and/orcaveolae in the cell membrane. PAF (1-0...
PTGER2: This gene encodes a receptor for prostaglandin E2, a me...
PTGER4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupledreceptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identifi...
PTGIR: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupledrece...
PTPRE: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes includi...
PVR: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein belongingto the immunoglobulin superfamily. The ...
RAF1: This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf). The encodedprotein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstreamof the Ras fami...
RASGRP1: This gene is a member of a family of genes characterized by the presenceof a Ras superfamily guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) doma...
RELA: NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in severalbiological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm...
RGS1: This gene encodes a member of the regulator of G-protein signallingfamily. This protein is located on the cytosolic side of the p...
RGS16: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ''regulator of G p...
RHOG: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, whichcycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states and function...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP)family of serine/th...
RNF144B: Enables ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. In...
ROS1: This proto-oncogene, highly-expressed in a variety of tumor cell lines,be...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. In...
SCARF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a scavenger receptor that is expressedin endothelial ...
SCN1B: Voltage-gated sodium channels are heteromeric proteins that functionin the generation and propagation of action potentials in muscl...
SELE: The protein encoded by this gene is found in cytokine-stimulated endothelialcells and is thought to be responsible for the accumulation of bl...
SELENOS: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is localized in theendoplasmic reticulum (ER). It is involved in the degradation process of misfoldedproteins in the ER, and may also have a role in inflammat...
SELL: This gene encodes a cell surface adhesion molecule that belongs to afamily of adhesion/homing receptors. The encoded protein contains a C-ty...
SEMA4D: Enables identical protein binding activity; semaphorin receptor bindingactivity; and tr...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin)superfamily. This member is the pri...
SGMS2: Sphingomyelin, a major component of cell and Golgi membranes, is madeby the transfer of phosphocholine from phosphatidylcholine onto ce...
SLAMF1: Enables SH2 domain binding activity and identical protein bindingacti...
SLC11A2: This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 11 proteinfamily. The product of this...
SLC1A2: This gene encodes a member of a family of solute transporter proteins.The membrane-bound protein is the principal transporter...
SLC28A2: Enables neurotransmitter transmembrane transporter activity and nucleosidetransmembrane transporter activ...
SLC31A1: The protein encoded by this gene is a high-af...
SLC31A2: Predicted to enable copper ion transmembrane transporter activity.Predic...
SLC4A4: This gene encodes a sodium bicarbonate cotransporter (NBC) involvedin ...
SLC7A1: Enables L-arginine transmembrane transporter activity and L-hist...
SLC7A2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cationic amino acid transporterand a me...
SPHK1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosineto form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- an...
SRI: This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein with multiple E-F hand domainsthat relocates from th...
STAB1: This gene encodes a large, transmembrane receptor protein which mayfunction in angiogenesis, lymphocyte homing, cell adhesion, or receptor scavenging.The p...
TACR1: This gene belongs to a gene family of tachykinin receptors. These tachykininreceptors a...
TACR3: This gene belongs to a family of genes that function as receptors fortachykinins.  Rece...
TAPBP: This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein which mediates interactionbetween newly assembled major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I moleculesand the transpor...
TIMP1: This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded bythis gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs),a group of peptida...
TLR1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immu...
TLR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are...
TLR3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activationof innate immunity. TLRs are high...
TNFAIP6: The protein encoded by this gene is a secretory protein that containsa hyaluronan-binding domain, and thus is a member of the hyaluronan-bindingprotein family...
TNFRSF1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This protein and TNF-receptor 1 form a heterocomplex that me...
TNFRSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptorsuperfamily. This receptor contributes to the clonal exp...
TNFSF10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein preferentially inducesapoptosis in transformed and tumor cells, but...
TNFSF15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is abundantly expressedin...
TNFSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This transmembrane cytokine isa bidirectional signal transducer that acts as a ...
TPBG: This gene encodes a leucine-rich transmembrane glycoprotein that maybe involved in cell adhe...
VIP: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glucagon family. It stimulatesmyocardial contractility...
////
ADAR: This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for RNA editing by site-specificdea...
APOL6: This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L g...
ARID5B: This gene encodes a member of the AT-rich interaction domain (ARID)family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein forms a...
ARL4A: ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylationfactor family of GTP-b...
AUTS2: This gene has been implicated in neurodevelopment and as a candidategene for numerous neurological disorde...
B2M: This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the majorhistocompatibility complex (MHC)...
BANK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a B-cell-specific scaffold proteinthat functions in B-cell ...
BATF2: Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNApolymerase II-specific and ...
BPGM: 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a small molecule found at high concentrationsin red blood cells where it binds to and decrease...
BST2: Bone marrow stromal cells are involved in the growth and develo...
BTG1: This gene is a member of an anti-proliferative gene family that regulatescell growth and differentiation. E...
C1R: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 protein family. The encodedprotein i...
C1S: This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent oft...
CASP1: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral role in the execution-phase of cell ...
CASP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a cysteine-aspartic acid proteasethat plays a central role in the execution-phase...
CASP4: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-asparticacid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays acentral rol...
CASP7: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a centra...
CASP8: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase)family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phaseof cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a ...
CCL2: This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. ...
CCL5: This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm ofchromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involvedin immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The sup...
CCL7: This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokinewhich attracts macrophages durin...
CD274: This gene encodes an immune inhibitory receptor ligand that is expressedby hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells, such as T cells and B cellsand various types of tumor cells. The encoded...
CD38: The protein encoded by this gene is a non-lineage-restricted, type IItransmembrane glycoprotein that synthesizes and hydrolyzes cyclic adenosine5''-diphosphate-ribose, an intrace...
CD40: This gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded proteinis a receptor on antigen-presenting cells of the immune system and is essentialfor mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses i...
CD69: This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamilyo...
CD74: The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibilitycomplex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that ...
CD86: This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-pr...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulat...
CFB: This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternativepathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a singlechain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternat...
CFH: This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA)gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short ...
CIITA: This gene encodes a protein with an acidic transcriptional activationdomain, 4 LRRs (leucine-rich repeats) and a GTP binding domain. The proteinis located in the nucleus and acts as a positive regulator of cl...
CMKLR1: Enables adipokinetic hormone binding activity and adipokinetic hormonerecep...
CMPK2: This gene encodes one of the enzymes in the nucleotide s...
CMTR1: Enables mRNA (nucleoside-2''-O-)-methyltrans...
CSF2RB: The protein encoded by this gene is the common bet...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily andligand for the rec...
CXCL11: Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostlybasic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of varioustypes of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane,G...
CXCL9: This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodessecr...
DDX60: DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp(DEAD), a...
DHX58: Enables double-stranded RNA binding activity; single-stranded RNA...
EIF2AK2: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinasethat is activated by autophosp...
EIF4E3: EIF4E3 belongs to the EIF4E family of translat...
EPSTI1: The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to promote tumor invasionand metastasis in some invasive cancer cells when overexpressed. Ex...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a centralrole in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has beenimplic...
FCGR1A: This gene encodes a protein that plays an importan...
FGL2: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein that is similarto the beta- an...
FPR1: This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor of mammalian phago...
GBP4: Guanylate-binding proteins, such as...
GBP6: Guanylate-binding proteins, such as G...
GCH1: This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family. The encodedprotein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrob...
GPR18: Predicted to enable G protein-coupled receptor activity. Predictedto be involved in positive regulation of Rho protein signa...
GZMA: Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share theremarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse s...
HELZ2: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcriptional co-activatorfor peroxisome proliferato...
HERC6: HERC6 belongs to the HERC family of ubiquitin ligases, all of whichcontain a HECT domain and...
HIF1A: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-induciblefactor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subu...
HLA-A: HLA-A belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain(beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. ClassI molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptidesderived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen...
HLA-B: HLA-B belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain(beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the mem...
HLA-DMA: HLA-DMA belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. Thisclass II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DMA) and a betachain (DMB), bo...
HLA-DQA1: HLA-DQA1 belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. Theclass II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DQA) and a betachain (DQB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays ...
HLA-DRB1: HLA-DRB1 belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogs. The classII molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DRA) and a beta chain(DRB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the...
HLA-G: HLA-G belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This classI molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain a...
ICAM1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is t...
IDO1: This gene encodes indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) - a heme enzymethat catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in tryptophan catabolism toN-f...
IFI27: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factorbinding activity; identical protein binding act...
IFI30: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal thiol reductase thatat ...
IFI35: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in several processes,...
IFI44: Predicted to be involved in immune respon...
IFI44L: Predicted to enable GTP binding act...
IFIH1: IFIH1 encodes MDA5 which is an intracellular sensor of viral RNA thattriggers the innate immune response. Sensing RNA length and secondary structure,MDA5 binds dsRNA oligonucleotides wit...
IFIT1: This gene encodes a protein containing tetratricopeptide repeats thatwas originally identified as in...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative...
IFIT3: Enables identical protein binding activity. Involved in...
IFITM2: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon ind...
IFITM3: Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are a family ofinterferon ind...
IFNAR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein thatforms one of the two chai...
IL10RA: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 10.This protein is structurally related to interferon receptors. It h...
IL15: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T andnatural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine2 share many biological activities. They are...
IL15RA: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that specifically binds interleukin15 (IL15) with high affinity. The receptors of IL15 and IL2 share two subunits,IL2R beta an...
IL18BP: The protein encoded by this gene functions as an inhibitor of theproinflammatory cytokine, IL18. It binds IL18, prevents...
IL2RB: The interleukin 2 receptor, which is involved in T cell-mediated immuneresponses, is present in 3 forms with respect to ability to bind interleukin2. The low affinity form is a monomer of the alpha subunit a...
IL4R: This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a typeI transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 toregulate IgE production. ...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturationof B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenouspyrogen ...
IL7: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine important for B and Tcell development. This cytokine and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) forma heterodimer that functions as a pre-pro-B cell growth-stimulating factor.IL7 is found to be a cofactor for V(D)J ...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator andtumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innatean...
IRF2: IRF2 encodes interferon regulatory factor 2, a member of the interferonregulatory t...
IRF4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the IRF (interferon regulatoryfactor) family of transcription factors, characterized by an unique tryptophan...
IRF5: This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF)family, a group of transcription factors with diverse ro...
IRF7: This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferonregulatory transcript...
IRF8: Interferon consensus sequence-binding protein (ICSBP) is a transcriptionfactor of the interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF) fa...
IRF9: This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF)family, a group of transcripti...
ISG15: The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitin-like protein that isconjugated to intracellular target proteins upon activ...
ISG20: Enables 3''-5'' exonuclease activity and RNA binding activity. ...
ISOC1: Predicted to be located in...
ITGB7: This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the integrin superfamily.Members of this family are adhesion receptors that function in signaling fromthe extracellular matrix to ...
JAK2: This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a centralrole in cytokine and growth factor signalling. The primary isoform of thisprotein has an N-terminal FERM domain that is required for erythropoietinreceptor association, an SH2 domain that binds STAT transcription factors,a pseudokinase domain and a C-terminal tyrosine kina...
KLRK1: Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes that can mediate lysis ofcertain tumor cells and virus-infected cells without previous activation.They can also regulate specific humoral and cell-mediated immunity. NK cellspreferentially express several calcium-dependent (C-type) le...
LAP3: Predicted to enable peptidase activit...
LATS2: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase belonging to theLATS tumor suppressor family. The protein localizes to ce...
LCP2: This gene encodes an adapter protein that acts as a substrate of theT cell antigen receptor (TCR)-activated prot...
LGALS3BP: The galectins are a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteinsimplicated in modulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. LGALS3BP...
LY6E: This gene belongs to the human Ly6 gene family and encodes a glycosylphosphati...
LYSMD2: ASSOCIATED WITH Bloom syndrome; color...
MARCHF1: MARCH1 is a member of the MARCH family of membrane-bound E3 ubiquitinligases (EC 6.3.2.19). MARCH proteins add ubiquitin (see MI...
METTL7B: Enables thiol S-methyltransf...
MT2A: This gene is a member of the metallothionein family of genes. Proteinsencoded by this gene family are low in molecular weight, are cysteine-rich,lack aromatic...
MTHFD2: This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzymewith methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenas...
MVP: This gene encodes the major component of the vault complex. Vaults aremulti-subunit ribonucleoprotein structures that ma...
MX1: This gene encodes a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing proteinthat participates in the cellular an...
MX2: The protein encoded by this gene has a nuclear and a cytoplasmic formand is a member of both the dynamin family and the family...
MYD88: This gene encodes a cytosolic adapter protein that plays a centralrole in the innate and adaptive immune response. This protein...
NAMPT: This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the condensation of nicotinamidewith 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyro...
NCOA3: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor coactivatorthat interacts with nuclear hormone receptors to enhance their transcr...
NFKB1: This gene encodes a 105 kD protein which can undergo cotranslationalprocessing by the 26S proteasome to produce a 50 kD protein. The 105 kD proteinis a Rel protein-specific transcription inhibitor and the 50 kD protein isa...
NFKBIA: This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, whichcontain multiple ankrin repeat domains. Th...
NLRC5: This gene encodes a member of the caspase recruitment domain-...
NMI: NMYC interactor (NMI) encodes a protein that interacts with NMYC andCMYC (two members of the oncogene Myc fa...
NOD1: This gene encodes a member of the nucleotide-binding oligomerizationdomain (NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family of proteins. The encoded protein playsa role in innate immunity by acting as a pattern-reco...
NUP93: The nuclear pore complex is a massive structure that extends acrossthe nuclear envelope, forming a gateway that regulates the flow of macrom...
OAS2: This gene encodes a member of the 2-5A synthetase family, essentialproteins involved in the innate immune response to viral infecti...
OAS3: This gene encodes an enzyme included in the 2'', 5'' oligoadenylatesynthase f...
OASL: Enables DNA binding activity and double-stranded RNA binding activity.Inv...
OGFR: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for opioid growth factor(OGF), also known as [Met(5)]-enkephalin. OGF is ...
P2RY14: The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupledreceptors, which contains several receptor subtypes with differe...
PARP12: Enables protein ADP-ribosylase activity. In...
PARP14: This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (...
PDE4B: This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclicnucleotide phosphodiesterase (PD...
PELI1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity. Involved in sev...
PFKP: This gene encodes a member of the phosphofructokinase A protein family.The encoded enzyme is...
PIM1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinasefamily, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoidand mye...
PLA2G4A: This gene encodes a member of the cytosolic phospholipase A2 groupIV family. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids torelease arachidonic...
PLSCR1: This gene encodes a phospholipid scramblase family member. The encodedprotein is involved in disruption of the asy...
PML: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING,a B-box type 1 and a B-box type ...
PNP: This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysisof purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, c...
PNPT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the evolutionary conservedpolynucleotide phosphorylase family comprised of ...
PSMA2: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed ...
PSMA3: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28...
PSMB10: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are c...
PSMB2: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical...
PSMB8: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunitsand 2 rings are com...
PSMB9: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha ...
PSME1: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2...
PSME2: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 r...
PTGS2: Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase (PTGS), also known as cyclooxygenase,is the key enzyme in prostaglandin biosyn...
PTPN1: The protein encoded by this gene is the founding member of the proteintyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family, which was isolated and identified basedon its enzymatic activity and amino acid sequence. PTPs catalyze the hydrolysi...
PTPN2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. Members of the PTP family share a highly conservedcatalytic motif, which ...
PTPN6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosinephosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulatea variety of cellular processes inc...
RAPGEF6: Enables several functions, including GTP-dependent protein bindingactivity; guanyl-nucleoti...
RBCK1: The protein encoded by this gene is simila...
RIPK1: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP)family of serine/threoni...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP)family of serine/th...
RNF213: This gene encodes a protein containing a C3HC4-type RING finger domain,which is a specialized type of Zn-finger that binds two atoms of zinc andis thought to be involved in...
RNF31: The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger, a motif presentin a variety of...
RSAD2: The protein encoded by this gene is an interferon-inducible antiviralprotein that belongs to the S-adenosyl-L-methionine (...
RTP4: Predicted to enable olfactory receptor binding activity. In...
SAMD9L: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that acts as a tumor suppressorbut also plays a key role in cell proliferation and the inna...
SAMHD1: This gene may play a role in regulation of the innate immune response....
SECTM1: This gene encodes a transmembrane and secreted protein ...
SELP: This gene encodes a 140 kDa protein that is stored in the alpha-granulesof platelets and Weibel-Palade bodies of endot...
SERPING1: This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involvedin the regulation of the complement ...
SLAMF7: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to...
SLC25A28: Predicted to enable ferrous iron transmembrane ...
SOCS1: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI familymemb...
SOCS3: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI),also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), famil...
SOD2: This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family.It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetr...
SP110: The nuclear body is a multiprotein complex that may have a role inthe regulation of gene transcription. This gene is a member of the SP100...
SPPL2A: This gene encodes a member of the GXGD family of aspartic proteases,which are transmembrane protein...
SRI: This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein with multiple E-F hand domainsthat relocates from th...
SSPN: This gene encodes a member of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC).The DGC spans the sar...
ST3GAL5: Ganglioside GM3 is known to participate in the induction of celldifferentiation, modulation of cell proliferation, maintenance of fibrob...
ST8SIA4: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the polycondensation ofalpha-2,8-linked sialic acid requi...
STAT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the recepto...
STAT2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members ...
STAT3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family.In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylatedby the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or...
STAT4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family oftranscription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT f...
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member ofthe superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transportvarious molecules across extra-...
TAPBP: This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein which mediates interactionbetween newly assembled major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I moleculesand the transpor...
TDRD7: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Tudor family of proteins.This pr...
TNFAIP2: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be inducedby the tumor necrosis fac...
TNFAIP3: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly inducedby the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The prot...
TNFAIP6: The protein encoded by this gene is a secretory protein that containsa hyaluronan-binding domain, and thus is a member of the hyaluronan-bindingprotein family...
TNFSF10: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to thetumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein preferentially inducesapoptosis in transformed and tumor cells, but...
TOR1B: The protein encoded by this gene is an ATPase found primarily in theendoplasmic reticulum and nuclear envelope...
TRAFD1: The innate immune system confers host defense aga...
TRIM14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) fami...
TRIM21: This gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family.The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box typ...
TRIM25: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. T...
TRIM26: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif(TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-bindin...
TXNIP: This gene encodes a thioredoxin-binding protein that is a member ofthe alpha arrestin protein family. Thioredoxin is a thiol-oxidor...
UBE2L6: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins fo...
UPP1: This gene encodes a uridine phosphorylase, an enzyme that catalyze...
USP18: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiquitin-specificproteases (UBP) family of enzymes that cleave ubiquitin from ubiquitinatedprotei...
VAMP5: Synaptobrevins/VAMPs, syntaxins, and the 25-kD synaptosomal-associatedprotein are the main com...
VAMP8: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that belongs to thesyn...
VCAM1: This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surfacesialoglycoprotein expre...
WARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids withnu...
XAF1: This gene encodes a protein which binds to and counteracts the inhibitoryeffect of a member of the IAP (...
XCL1: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the chemokine superfamily.Chemokines function in inflamma...
ZBP1: This gene encodes a Z-DNA binding protein. The encoded protein p...
ZNFX1: Enables RNA binding activity. Predicted to be...
////
ABCF2: This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter...
ACACA: Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system.ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoAto ma...
ACLY: ATP citrate lyase is the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesisof cytosolic acetyl-CoA in many tissues. The enzyme is a tetramer (relativ...
ACSL3: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity...
ACTR2: The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however,the protein ...
ACTR3: The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however,the protein i...
ADD3: Adducins are heteromeric proteins composed of different subunits referredto as adducin alpha, beta and gamma. The three subunits are encoded by distinctgenes and belong to a family of membrane skeletal proteins involved in theassembly of spectrin-actin network in erythrocytes and at s...
ADIPOR2: The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serveas recepto...
AK4: This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family of enzymes.The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondrial matrix. Adenylate kinasesregulat...
ALDOA: This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolaseprotein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe...
ARPC5L: Predicted to enable actin filament binding activity...
ASNS: The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of asparagine...
ATP2A2: This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellularpumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of the skeletalmuscle. This enzym...
ATP5MC1: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. MitochondrialATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradientof protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosp...
ATP6V1D: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunitenzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles.V-ATPase dependent organelle acidi...
AURKA: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase thatappears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or s...
BCAT1: This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain aminoacid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible t...
BHLHE40: This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in varioustiss...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob ...
BUB1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a centralrole in mitosis. The encoded protein functions ...
CACYBP: The protein encoded by this gene is a calcyclin binding protein. Itmay be involved in calcium-...
CALR: Calreticulin is a highly conserved chaperone protein which resides primarilyin the endoplasmic reticulum, and is involved in a va...
CANX: This gene encodes a member of the calnexin family of molecular chaperones.The encoded protein is a calcium-binding,...
CCNF: This gene encodes a member of the cyclin family. Cyclins are importantregulators of cell cycle transitions through their ability to bind and activatecyclin-dependent protein kinases. ...
CCNG1: The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases(CDKs) whose activities are regulated b...
CCT6A: The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is amember of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known...
CD9: This gene encodes a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also knownas the tetraspanin family. Tet...
CDC25A: CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A isrequired for progression from G1 to the S phase of t...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulat...
CFP: This gene encodes a plasma glycoprotein that positively regulates thealternative complement pathway of the innate immune system. ...
COPS5: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the eight subunits of COP9signalosome, a highly conserved protein complex that functions as an impor...
CORO1A: This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeatsare minimally conserved regions of approximately...
CTH: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme in the trans-sulfuration pathwaythat conver...
CTSC: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase C1 family and lysosomalcysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activationof many serine proteinases i...
CXCR4: This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derivedfactor-1. The protein has 7 transm...
CYB5B: Enables heme binding activity. Contributes to nitri...
CYP51A1: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily ofenzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze...
DAPP1: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate bind...
DDIT3: This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP)family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negativeinhib...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding acti...
DDX39A: This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteinsare characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putativeRNA helicases. They are implicated in a n...
DHCR24: This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductasewhich catalyzes the reduction of the d...
DHCR7: This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond inthe B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterolto cholesterol. This gene is ubiqui...
DHFR: Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate,a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synt...
EBP: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein of theendoplasmic reticulum. It is a high affinity binding protein for the antiischemicphenylalkylamine Ca2+ antagonist [3H]emopamil and the photoaffin...
EDEM1: Enables mannosyl-oligosaccharide 1,2-alpha-mannosidase activity andmisfolded prote...
EEF1E1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that localizes to boththe cytoplasm and nucleus. In the cytoplasm, the encoded protein is a...
EGLN3: Enables peptidyl-proline 4-dioxygenase activity. Involved in severalprocesses, includi...
EIF2S2: Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 (EIF-2) functions in theearly steps of protein synthesis by forming a terna...
ELOVL5: This gene belongs to the ELO family. It is highly expressed in theadrenal gland and testis, an...
ELOVL6: Fatty acid elongases (EC 6.2.1.3), such as E...
ENO1: This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes foundin mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 ga...
EPRS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAswith their cognate ami...
ERO1A: Enables oxidoreductase activity. Invo...
ETF1: This gene encodes a class-1 polypeptide chain release factor. The encodedprotein plays an essential role i...
FADS1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty ac...
FADS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fatty acid desaturase(FADS) gene family. Desaturase enzymes regulate unsaturation of fatty acidsthrough the...
FDXR: This gene encodes a mitochondrial flavoprotein that...
FGL2: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein that is similarto the beta- an...
FKBP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin proteinfamily, which play a role in immunoreg...
G6PD: This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This protein isa cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function...
GAPDH: This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenaseprotein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlightingprotein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions.The pr...
GBE1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen branching enzyme thatcatalyzes the transfer of alpha-1,4-linked glucosyl un...
GCLC: Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetaseis the first rate-limiting enzyme of gluta...
GGA2: This gene encodes a member of the Golgi-localized, gamma adaptin ear-containing,ARF-binding (GGA) family. This family includes ub...
GLA: This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminalalpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipi...
GLRX: This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded proteinis a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the r...
GMPS: In the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides, IMP is the branch pointmetabolite at which ...
GOT1: Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent...
GPI: This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase proteinfamily. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting proteinbased on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In thec...
GSK3B: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase belongingto the glyc...
GSR: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family. This enzyme is ...
GTF2H1: Enables thyroid hormone receptor binding activity. Involved in posi...
HK2: Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thefirst step in most gluc...
HMBS: This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily.The encoded protein is the...
HMGCR: HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesisand is regulated via a negative feedback mechanism mediated by sterols andnon-sterol metaboli...
HMGCS1: Enables protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to be in...
HPRT1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzesconversion of hypoxanthin...
HSP90B1: This gene encodes a member of a family of adenosine triphosphate(ATP)-metabolizingmolecular chaperones ...
HSPA4: Predicted to enable ATP binding activity. Involved in chaperone-mediatedprotein comp...
HSPA5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein70 (HSP70) family. This protein localizes to the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum (ER) where it operates as a typical HSP70 chaperone involved inthe foldin...
HSPA9: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 gene family.The encoded protein is pr...
HSPD1: This gene encodes a member of the chaperonin family. The encoded mitochondrialprotein may function as a signaling molecule in the in...
HSPE1: This gene encodes a major heat shock protein which functions as a chaperonin.Its structure consists of a h...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation ofisocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses,one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+).Five isocitrate dehydrogenases ha...
IDI1: IDI1 encodes a peroxisomally-localized enzyme that catalyzes the interconversionof isopentenyl diphosphate ...
IFI30: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal thiol reductase thatat ...
IFRD1: This gene is an immediate early gene that encodes a protein relatedto interferon-gamma. This protein may function...
IGFBP5: Enables insulin-like growth factor I binding activity. Involved inseveral...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involve...
INSIG1: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein that regulatescholesterol metabolism, lipogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. The encodedp...
ITGB2: This gene encodes an integrin beta chain, which combines with multipledifferent alpha chains to fo...
LDHA: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactateand NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the...
LDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specificligands. The enc...
LGMN: This gene encodes a cysteine protease that has a strict specificityfor hydrolysis of asparaginyl bonds. This enzyme may be involved in the processingof bacterial peptides and endo...
LTA4H: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that contains both hydrolaseand aminopeptidase activities. Th...
M6PR: This gene encodes a member of the P-type lectin family. P-type lectinsplay a critical role in lysosome functi...
MAP2K3: The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinasethat belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated bymitogenic and environmental stress...
MCM2: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are involved in the initiation of eukaryoticgenome...
MCM4: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosomemaintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryoticgenome replication. The hexameric protein com...
ME1: This gene encodes a cytosolic, NADP-dependent enzyme that generates NADPHfor fatty acid bio...
MLLT11: The gene variously symbolized ALL1, HRX, or MLL located on 11q23 hasbeen demonstrated to be fused with a number of translocation partners in casesof ...
MTHFD2: This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzymewith methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenas...
MTHFD2L: Predicted to enable methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activity;methylenetet...
NAMPT: This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the condensation of nicotinamidewith 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyro...
NFIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator thatbinds as a homod...
NFKBIB: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NF-kappa-B inhibitorfamily, which inhibit NF-kappa-B by ...
NFYC: This gene encodes one subunit of a trimeric complex forming a highlyconserved transcription factor that binds wi...
NIBAN1: This gene encodes a member of the family with sequence similari...
NMT1: Myristate, a rare 14-carbon saturated fatty acid, is cotranslationallyattached by an amide linkage to the N-terminal glycine resid...
NUFIP1: This gene encodes a nuclear RNA binding protein that contains a C2H2zinc finger motif and a nuclear localization signal. ...
NUP205: This gene encodes a nucleoporin, which is a subunit of the nuclea...
NUPR1: Enables DNA binding activity and transcription coactivator activity.Involved in several processes, ...
P4HA1: This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzymein collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunit...
PDAP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphoprotein that...
PDK1: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is a mitochondrial multienzyme complexthat catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylati...
PFKL: This gene encodes the liver (L) subunit of an enzyme that catalyzesthe conversion of...
PGK1: The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzesthe conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encodedprotein may also act as a co...
PGM1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of phosphoglucomutase(PGM) and belongs to the phosphohexose mutase family. There are s...
PHGDH: This gene encodes the enzyme which is involved in the early steps ofL-serine synthesis in animal cells. L-ser...
PIK3R3: Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) phosphorylates phosphatidylinositoland similar compounds,...
PITPNB: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that catalyzes the transferof phosphat...
PLK1: The Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC5/Polosub...
PLOD2: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzymethat is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Theen...
PNO1: Enables RNA binding activ...
PNP: This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysisof purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, c...
POLR3G: Enables chromatin binding activity. Involved in positive regulationof innate...
PPA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the inorganic pyrophosph...
PPIA: This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase(PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization...
PPP1R15A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased ...
PRDX1: This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidantenzymes, which reduce hydrogen ...
PSAT1: This gene encodes a member of the class-V pyridoxal-phosphate-dependentaminotransferase family. T...
PSMA3: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28...
PSMA4: This gene encodes a core alpha subunit of the 20S prote...
PSMB5: The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are comp...
PSMC2: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7...
PSMC4: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsar...
PSMC6: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identi...
PSMD12: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical s...
PSMD13: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 2...
PSMD14: This gene encodes a component of the 26S proteasome. The 26S proteasomeis a large mul...
PSME3: The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highlyordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator.The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 ringsare composed of 7 al...
PSMG1: Enables molecular adaptor activity. Involved in chaperone-...
PSPH: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a subfamily of the phosphotransferases.Thi...
QDPR: This gene encodes the enzyme dihydropteridine reductase, which catalyzesthe NADH-mediated reduction of quinonoid dihydr...
RAB1A: This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of GTPases. Membersof the gene fa...
RDH11: The protein encoded by this gene is an NAD...
RIT1: This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases. Theencoded ...
RPA1: This gene encodes the largest subunit of the heterotrimeric ReplicationProtein A (RPA) complex, which binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), forminga nucleoprotein complex that plays an important role in DNA metabolism, beinginvolved in DNA replicatio...
RPN1: This gene encodes a type I integral membrane protein found only in therough endoplasmic reticulum. ...
RRM2: This gene encodes one of two non-identical subunits for ribonucleotidereductase. This reductase cataly...
RRP9: This gene encodes a member of the WD-repeat protein family. The encodedprotein is...
SC5D: This gene encodes an enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. The encoded...
SCD: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, primarilythe synthesis of oleic acid. T...
SDF2L1: Enables misfolded protein binding activity. I...
SEC11A: This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S26B family. The encodedprotein i...
SERP1: Predicted to be involved in endoplasmic reticulum unfolded proteinresponse and...
SERPINH1: This gene encodes a member of the serpin superfamily of serine proteinaseinhibitors. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticu...
SHMT2: This gene encodes the mitochondrial form of a pyridoxal phosphate-dependentenzyme that catalyzes the reversible re...
SKAP2: The protein encoded by this gene shares homology with Src kinase-associatedphosphoprotein 1, and is a substrate of Src family kinases. It is an adaptorprotein that is thought ...
SLA: Predicted to enable signaling receptor binding activity. Predicted tobe involved in cell...
SLC1A4: The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-dependent ne...
SLC1A5: The SLC1A5 gene encodes a sodium-dependen...
SLC2A1: This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brainbarri...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucosebinding activity;...
SLC37A4: This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasmto the lumen of the endop...
SLC6A6: This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is a member ofa...
SLC7A11: This gene encodes a member of a heteromeric, sodium-independent,anionic amino acid transport system that is highly specific for cys...
SLC7A5: Enables L-leucine transmembrane transporter activity; L-tryptophantransmembrane transporter activity; and...
NHERF1: This gene encodes a sodium/hydrogen exchanger regulatory cofactor.The protein interacts with and regulates various proteins including the cysticfi...
SORD: Sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD; EC 1.1.1.14) catalyzes the interconversionof polyols and their corresponding ketoses, and t...
SQLE: Squalene epoxidase catalyzes the firs...
SQSTM1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that binds ubiquitin andregulates activation of the nuclear factor ka...
SRD5A1: Steroid 5-alpha-reductase (EC 1.3.99.5) c...
SSR1: The signal sequence receptor (SSR) is a glycosylated endoplasmic reticulum(ER) membrane receptor associated with protei...
STARD4: Cholesterol homeostasis is regulated, at least in part, by sterolregulatory element (SRE)-binding proteins (e.g., SREBP1; MIM 184756) and byliver...
STC1: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The gene...
STIP1: STIP1 is an adaptor protein that coordinates the functions of HSP70(see HSPA1A; MIM 140550) and HSP90 (see HS...
SYTL2: The protein encoded by this gene is a synaptotagmin-like protein (SLP)that belongs to a C2 domain-containi...
TBK1: The NF-kappa-B (NFKB) complex of proteins is inhibited by I-kappa-B(IKB) proteins, which inactivate NFKB by trapping it i...
TCEA1: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity; translation elongation factoractivity; and zinc ion b...
TES: Cancer-associated chromosomal changes often involve regions containingfragile sites. This gene maps to a commom fragile site on chromosome 7q31.2designated FRA7G. ...
TFRC: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor necessary for cellu...
TM7SF2: Enables delta14-sterol reductase activity....
TMEM97: TMEM97 is a conserved integral membr...
TOMM40: The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the outer membraneof the m...
TPI1: This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, whichcatalyzes the isomer...
TRIB3: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative protein kinase thatis induced by the transcripti...
TUBA4A: Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential anddiverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulin.The genes encoding these microtubule...
TUBG1: This gene encodes a member of the tubulin superfamily. The encodedprotein localizes...
TXNRD1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pyridine nucleotide-disulfideoxidoreductase family, and is a member of the thioredoxin (Trx) system. Threethioredoxin reductase (TrxR) isozymes are found in mammals. Tr...
UBE2D3: The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellularmechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived...
UCHL5: Enables endopeptidase inhibitor activity; proteasome binding activity;and thiol-depend...
UFM1: UFM1 is a ubiquitin-like protein that is conjugated to target pr...
UNG: This gene encodes one of several uracil-DNA glycosylases. One importantfunction of uracil-DNA glycosylases is to prevent mutagenesis by el...
USO1: The protein encoded by this gene is a peripheral membrane protein whichrecycles between the cytosol and the Golgi apparatus during interph...
VLDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists ofcell surface proteins involved in recepto...
WARS1: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by theircognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids withnu...
XBP1: This gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates MHC class IIgenes by binding to a promoter element referred to as an X box. This geneproduct is a bZIP protein, which was also identified as a cellular transcriptionfactor that binds to an...
YKT6: This gene product is one of the SNARE recognition molecules implicatedin vesicular tran...
////
ABLIM1: This gene encodes a LIM zinc-binding domain-containing pro...
ACHE: Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholineat neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminatessignal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, whereit constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylchol...
ACSL1: The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzymeA ligase family....
ACTA1: The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins,which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structureand inte...
ACTC1: Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various typesof cell motility. Polymerization of globular actin (G-actin) leads...
ACTN2: Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which representsa diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrinsand dystrophins. Alp...
ACTN3: This gene encodes a member of the alpha-actin binding protein genefamily. The encoded protein is primarily ...
ADAM12: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are structurallyrelated to snake venom disintegrins and have be...
ADCY9: Adenylate cyclase is a membrane bound enzyme that catalyses the formationof cyclic A...
AEBP1: This gene encodes a member of carboxypeptidase A protein family. Theencoded prot...
AGL: This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved inglycogen degradation. This enzyme has two indepen...
AGRN: This gene encodes one of several proteins that are critical in the developmentof the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), as identifie...
AK1: This gene encodes an adenylate kinase enzyme involved in energy metabolismand homeostasis of cellular adenine nucleotide ratios...
AKT2: This gene is a putative oncogene encoding a protein belonging to a subfamilyof serine/threonine kinases containing SH...
ANKRD2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the muscle ankyrin repeatprotein...
APLNR: This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor gene family.The encoded protein is related to the angiotensin recep...
APOD: This gene encodes a component of high density lipoprotein that has nomarked similarity to other ap...
APP: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursorprotein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some ofthese peptides are ...
ATP2A1: This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellularpumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticu...
ATP6AP1: This gene encodes a component of a multisubunit enzyme that mediatesacidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. Vacuol...
BAG1: The oncogene BCL2 is a membrane protein that blocks a step in a pathwayleading to apoptosis or programmed cell death. The p...
BDKRB2: This gene encodes a receptor for bradykinin. The 9 aa bradykinin peptideelicits many responses i...
BHLHE40: This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in varioustiss...
BIN1: This gene encodes several isoforms of a nucleocytoplasmic adaptor protein,one of which was initially identified as a MYC-interacting protein with featuresof a tumor suppre...
CACNA1H: This gene encodes a T-type member of the alpha-1 subunit family,a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channelsmediate the influx of calcium ...
CACNG1: Voltage-dependent calcium channels are composed of five subunits.The protein encoded by this gene represents one of these subunits, g...
CAMK2B: The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinasefamily and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein...
CASQ1: This gene encodes the skeletal muscle specific member of the calsequestrinprotein family. C...
CASQ2: The protein encoded by this gene specifies the cardiac muscle familymember of the calsequestrin family. Calsequestrin is...
CAV3: This gene encodes a caveolin family member, which functions as a componentof the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. Caveolin proteinsare propose...
CD36: The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein ofthe platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in plateletsand various cell li...
CDH13: This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. The encodedprotein is localized to the surface of the cell membrane and is anchored bya GPI moie...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Theencoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependentkinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulat...
CFD: This gene encodes a member of the S1, or chymotrypsin, family of serinepeptidases. This protease catalyzes the cleavage of factor B, the rate-limiting...
CHRNA1: The muscle acetylcholine receptor consiststs of 5 subunits of 4 differentty...
CHRNB1: The muscle acetylcholine receptor is composed of five subunits: twoalpha subunits and one beta, o...
CHRNG: The mammalian muscle-type acetylcholine receptor is a transmembranepentameric glycoprotein with two alpha subunits, one beta, one delta, andone epsilon (in adult sk...
CKB: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved inenergy homeostasis. The encoded prote...
CKM: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved inenergy homeostasis and is an important se...
CKMT2: Mitochondrial creatine kinase (MtCK) is responsible for the transferof high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine.It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme fami...
CLU: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can undersome ...
CNN3: This gene encodes a protein with a markedly acidic C terminus; the basic...
COL15A1: This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XV collagen, a member ofthe FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupt...
COL1A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type I collagen whose triplehelix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-formingcollagen found in most connect...
COL3A1: This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillarcollagen...
COL4A2: This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, themajor structural component o...
COL6A2: This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen,a beaded filament collagen found in most connective ti...
COL6A3: This gene encodes the alpha-3 chain, one of the three alpha chainsof type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues.The alpha-3 chain of type VI collagen is much larger than the alpha-1 and-2 chains. This d...
COX6A2: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrialrespiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochromec to oxygen. It is a hetero...
COX7A1: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrialrespiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochromec to oxygen. ...
CRAT: This gene encodes carnitine O-acetyltransferase, a member of the carnitineacyltransferase family and a key metabolic p...
CRYAB: Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gammafamilies. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A andalpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be inducedby heat shock and are members of the small heat ...
CSRP3: This gene encodes a member of the CSRP family of LIM domain proteins,which may be involved in regulatory processes important for deve...
CTF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine tha...
DAPK2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine/threonine proteinkinase family. This pro...
DENND2B: This gene was identified by its ability to suppress the tumorigenicityof Hela cells in nude mice. The protein encoded ...
DES: This gene encodes a muscle-specific class III intermediate filament.Homopolymers...
DMD: This gene spans a genomic range of greater than 2 Mb and encodes a largeprotein containing an N-terminal actin-binding domain and mu...
DMPK: The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase that isclosely related to other kinases that interact with members of the Rho familyof small GTPases. Substrates f...
DTNA: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dystrobrevin subfamilyof the dystrophin family. This protein is a component of the dystrophin-assoc...
EFS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CAS (CRK-associatedsubstrate) family of adaptor proteins which typically serve as scaffolds forthe assembly of larger signaling complexes. These complexes fo...
EIF4A2: Enables ATP hydrolysis activity. Involved i...
ENO3: This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals.This isoenzyme is found in sk...
EPHB3: Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmentalprocesses, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures an...
ERBB3: This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This membrane-bound protein hasa neuregulin binding domain but not an active kinase domain. It thereforeca...
FABP3: The intracellular fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) belongs to amultigene family. FABPs are divided into at least three distinct types, namely...
FDPS: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of geranylpyrophosphate and farnesyl pyrophosphate from isopentenyl pyrophosphate anddimethylallyl pyr...
FGF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growthfactor (FGF) family. FGF family members bind heparin and possess broad mitogenicand angiogeni...
FHL1: This gene encodes a member of the four-and-a-half-LIM-only protein family.Family members contain two highly conserved, tandem...
FKBP1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin proteinfamily, which play a role in immunoregulation a...
FLII: This gene encodes a protein with a gelsolin-like actin binding domainand an N-te...
FOXO4: This gene encodes a member of the O class of winged helix/forkheadtranscription factor family. Proteins encoded b...
FST: Follistatin is a single-chain gonadal protein that specifically inhibitsfollicle-stimulating hormone release....
FXYD1: This gene encodes a member of a family of small membrane proteins thatshare a 35-amino acid signature sequence domain, beginning with the sequencePFXYD and containing 7 invariant and 6 highly conserved amino acids. The approvedhuman gene nomencl...
GAA: This gene encodes lysosomal alpha-glucosidase, which is essential forthe degradation of glycogen to glucose...
GABARAPL2: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Involve...
GADD45B: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levelsare increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment withDNA-...
GJA5: This gene is a member of the connexin gene family. The encoded proteinis a component of ga...
GNAO1: The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of ...
GPX3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidasefamily, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxidesand hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells againstoxidative damage...
GSN: The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomersand filament...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity and heparin binding activity. Involvedin several process...
HDAC5: Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycleprogression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alterschromosome str...
HRC: This gene encodes a luminal sarcoplasmic reticulum protein identifiedby its ability...
HSPB2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of smallheat-shock proteins...
HSPB8: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of smallheat-shock proteins containing a conservative alpha-crystallin doma...
IFRD1: This gene is an immediate early gene that encodes a protein relatedto interferon-gamma. This protein may function...
IGF1: The protein encoded by this gene is similar to insulin in function andstructure and is a member of a family ...
IGFBP3: This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein(IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFB...
IGFBP7: This gene encodes a member of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-bindingprotein (IGFBP) family. IGFBPs bind IGFs with high affinity...
ITGA7: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chainfamily. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed ofan alpha chain ...
ITGB1: Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits.At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have...
ITGB4: Integrins are heterodimers comprised of alpha and beta subunits, thatare noncovalently associated transmembrane glycoprotein receptors. Differentcombinations of alpha ...
ITGB5: This gene encodes a beta subunit of integrin, which can combine withdiffe...
KCNH1: Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex classof voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints.Their diverse functions include regula...
KCNH2: This gene encodes a component of a voltage-activated potassium channelfound in car...
KIFC3: This gene encodes a member of the kinesin-14 family of microtubulemotors. Members of this fam...
KLF5: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like factor subfamily of zincfinger proteins. The encoded protein is a transcriptional...
LAMA2: Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basementmembrane. It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organizationof ce...
LARGE1: This gene encodes a member of the N-acetylglucosaminyltransferasegene family. It encodes a glycosyltransferase which participates in glycosylationof alpha-dystroglycan, and m...
LDB3: This gene encodes a PDZ domain-containing protein. PDZ motifs are modularprotein-protein interaction domains consisting of 80-120 amino acid residues.PDZ domain-containing proteins interact with each othe...
LPIN1: This gene encodes a magnesium-ion-dependent phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolaseenzyme that catalyzes the penultimate step in triglyceride synthesis including...
LSP1: This gene encodes an intracellular F-actin binding protein. The proteinis exp...
MAPK12: Activation of members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase familyis ...
MAPRE3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ...
MB: This gene encodes a member of the globin superfamily and is predominantlyexpressed in skeletal and car...
MEF2A: The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding transcription factorthat activates many muscle-specific, growth factor-ind...
MEF2C: This locus encodes a member of the MADS box transcription enhancerfactor 2 (MEF2) family of proteins, which play a ro...
MEF2D: This gene is a member of the myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2 (MEF2)family of transcription factors. Members of this family are invol...
MRAS: This gene encodes a member of the Ras family of small GTPases. Thesemembrane-associated proteins function a...
MYBPC3: MYBPC3 encodes the cardiac isoform of myosin-binding protein C. Myosin-bindingprotein...
MYBPH: Predicted to be a structural constituent of m...
MYF6: The protein encoded by this gene is a probable basic helix-loop-heli...
MYH1: Myosin is a major contractile protein which converts chemical energyinto mechanical energy through the hydrolysis o...
MYH11: The protein encoded by this gene is a smooth muscle myosin belongingto the myosin heavy chain family. The gene product is a subunit of a hexam...
MYH2: Myosins are actin-based motor proteins that function in the generationof mechanical force in eukaryotic cells. Muscle myosins a...
MYH3: Myosin is a major contractile protein which converts chemical energyinto mechanical energy through the hydrolysi...
MYH4: Enables double-stranded RNA bin...
MYH7: Muscle myosin is a hexameric protein containing 2 heavy chain subunits,2 alkali light chain subunits, and 2 regulatory light chain subunits. Thisgene encodes the beta ...
MYH8: Myosins are actin-based motor proteins that function in the generationof mechanical force in eukaryotic cells. Muscle myosin...
MYH9: This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein shouldnot be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9...
MYL1: Myosin is a hexameric ATPase cellular motor protein. It is composedof two...
MYL11: Predicted to be a structural constituent of muscle....
MYL2: This gene encodes a major sarcomeric protein in mammalian striated muscle.The encoded...
MYL3: MYL3 encodes myosin light chain 3, an alkali light chain also re...
MYL4: Myosin is a hexameric ATPase cellular motor protein. It is composedof two myosin heavy cha...
MYL6B: Myosin is a hexameric ATPase cellular motor protein. It is composedof two heavy c...
MYL7: Predicted to enable calci...
MYLK: This gene, a muscle member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, encodesmyosin light chain kinase which is a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme.This kinase phosphorylates myosin regulatory light chain...
MYO1C: This gene encodes a member of the unconventional myosin protein family,which are actin-based molecular motors. The protein is found in the c...
MYOG: Myogenin is a muscle-specific transcription factor that can induce my...
MYOM1: The giant protein titin, together with its associated proteins, interconnectsthe major structure of sarcomeres, the M bands and Z discs. The C-terminalend of the titin string extends into the M line, where it binds tightly toM-band const...
MYOM2: The giant protein titin, together with its associated proteins, interconnectsthe major structure of sarcomeres, the M bands and Z disc...
MYOZ1: The protein encoded by this gene is primarily expressed in the skeletalmus...
NAV2: This gene encodes a member of the neuron navigato...
NCAM1: This gene encodes a cell adhesion protein which is a member of theimmunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is involved in cell-to-cellinteractions as well as cell-matrix interactions during development and differentiation.The encoded protein plays a role in the development of the nervous systemby...
NOS1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of nitric oxidesynthases, which synthesize nitric oxide from L-arginine. Nitric oxide isa reactive free radical, which acts as a biologic mediator in ...
NOTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Membersof this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristicsincluding an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal g...
NQO1: This gene is a member of the NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) familyand encodes a cytoplasmic 2-electron reductase. This FAD-binding protein formshomodimers a...
OCEL1: Predicted to be inte...
PC: This gene encodes pyruvate carboxylase, which requires biotin and ATPto catalyse the carboxylation of pyruvate to oxaloacetate. T...
PDE4DIP: The protein encoded by this gene serves to anchor phosphodiesterase4D...
PDLIM7: The protein encoded by this gene is representative of a family ofproteins composed of conserved PDZ and LIM domains. LIM domains are proposedto function in protein-protein...
PFKM: Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver andplatelet. These isozymes function as subunits ...
PGAM2: Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) catalyzes the reversible reaction of3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglyc...
PICK1: The protein encoded by this gene contains a PDZ domain, through whichit interacts with protein kinase C, alpha (PRKCA). This protein may functionas an adaptor...
PKIA: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cAMP-dependent protein...
PLXNB2: Members of the B class of plexins, such as PLXN...
PPFIA4: PPFIA4, or liprin-alpha-4, belongs ...
PPP1R3C: This gene encodes a carbohydrate binding protein that is a subunitof the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) complex. PP1 catalyzes rever...
PRNP: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchoredglycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encodedprotein contains...
PSEN2: Alzheimer''s disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the diseasecarry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloidprecursor protein...
PTGIS: This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactionsinvolved...
PTP4A3: This gene encodes a member of the protein-tyrosine phosphatase family.Protein tyrosine phosphatases are cell signaling ...
PVALB: The protein encoded by this gene is a high affinity calcium ion-bi...
PYGM: This gene encodes a muscle enzyme involved in glycogenolysis. Highlysimila...
RB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of the cellcycle and was the first tum...
REEP1: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that functions to enhanc...
RIT1: This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases. Theencoded ...
RYR1: This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in skeletal muscle. Theencoded protein functions as a calci...
SCD: This gene encodes an enzyme involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, primarilythe synthesis of oleic acid. T...
SCHIP1: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involvedin positive re...
SGCA: This gene encodes a component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex(DGC), which is critical to the ...
SGCD: The protein encoded by this gene is one of the four known componentsof the sarcoglycan complex, which is a subcomplex of...
SGCG: This gene encodes gamma-sarcoglycan, one of several sarcolemmal transmembraneglycoproteins that interact with dystrophin. ...
SH2B1: This gene encodes a member of the SH2-domain containing mediators f...
SH3BGR: Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding ...
SIRT2: This gene encodes a member of the sirtuin family of proteins, homologsto the yeast Sir2 protein. Members of the sirtuin family are characterizedb...
SLC6A8: The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein whos...
SLN: Sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPases are transmembrane proteins thatcatalyze the ATP-dependent transpo...
SMTN: This gene encodes a structural protein that is found exclusively incontractile smooth mu...
SOD3: This gene encodes a member of the superoxide dismutase (SOD) proteinfamily. SODs are antioxidant enzymes that catalyze the conversion of superoxideradicals into hydrogen perox...
SORBS1: This gene encodes a CBL-associated protein which functions...
SORBS3: This gene encodes an SH3 domain-containing adaptor protein. The presenceof SH3 d...
SPARC: This gene encodes a cysteine-rich acidic matrix-associated protein.The encoded protein is required for the col...
SPDEF: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ETS family of transcriptionfactors. It is highly expressed in the prostate epithelial cells,...
SPEG: This gene encodes a protein with similarity to members of the myosinlight ch...
SPHK1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosineto form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- an...
SPTAN1: Spectrins are a family of filamentous cytoskeletal proteins that functionas essential scaffold proteins that stabilize the plasma membrane an...
SSPN: This gene encodes a member of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC).The DGC spans the sar...
STC2: This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressedin a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions.The encoded protein has 10 of it...
SVIL: This gene encodes a bipartite protein with distinct amino- and carboxy-terminaldomains. The amino-terminus contains nuclear localization signals and thecarboxy...
SYNGR2: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein containing four transmembraneregions and a C-term...
TAGLN: This gene encodes a shape change and transformation sensitive actin-bindingprotein which belongs to the calponin family. It is ubiquitously expressedin vascular and visceral smooth muscle, ...
TCAP: Sarcomere assembly is regulated by the muscle protein titin. Titin isa giant elastic protein with kinase activity tha...
TEAD4: This gene product is a member of the transcriptional enhancer factor(TEF) family of transcription factors, whic...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growthfactor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind variousTGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD fami...
TNNC1: Troponin is a central regulatory protein of striated muscle contraction,and together with tropomyosin, is located on the act...
TNNC2: Troponin (Tn), a key protein complex in the regulation of striatedmuscle contractio...
TNNI1: Troponin proteins associate with tropomyosin and regulate the calciumsensitivity of the myofibril contractile apparatus of striated muscles. TroponinI (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subuni...
TNNI2: This gene encodes a fast-twitch skeletal muscle protein, a member ofthe troponin I gene family, and a component of the troponin complex includingtroponin T, troponin C and troponin I subunits. The tropon...
TNNT1: This gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of troponin, which isa regulatory complex located on the thin filament of the sarcomere. This complexregulates striated muscle contraction in r...
TNNT2: This gene encodes the cardiac isoform of troponin T. The encoded proteinis the tropomyosin-bi...
TNNT3: The binding of Ca(2+) to the trimeric troponin complex initiates theprocess of muscle contraction. Increased Ca(2+) concentrations produce a conformationalchange in the troponin complex that is transmitted to tropomyosin dimers situatedalong actin filaments. The altered conformation pe...
TPD52L1: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that contain coiled-coildomains and may...
TPM2: This gene encodes beta-tropomyosin, a member of the actin filament bindingprotein family, a...
TPM3: This gene encodes a member of the tropomyosin family of actin-bindingproteins. Tropomyosins are dimers of coiled-coil proteins that provide stabilityto...
TSC2: This gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes the growth inhibitoryprotein tuberin. Tuberin inte...
VIPR1: This gene encodes a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide, a smallneuropeptide. Vasoactive intestinal...
WWTR1: Enables transcription coactivator activity. Involved in s...
////
ABCB7: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellul...
ACAA1: This gene encodes an enzyme operative in the beta-...
ACAA2: The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of t...
ACADM: This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain) acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase. The homotet...
ACADSB: Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase(ACADSB) is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA der...
ACADVL: The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it catalyzes the f...
ACAT1: This gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible fo...
ACO2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase family. It is an enzyme that cata...
AFG3L2: This gene encodes a protein localized in mitochondria and closely r...
AIFM1: This gene encodes a flavoprotein essential for nuclear disassembly in apoptotic cells, and it is found in the mitochondrial intermembrane space in healthy cells. Induction of apoptosis results...
ALAS1: This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme which is catalyzes the rate-limiting step in heme (iron-protoporphyrin) biosynthesis....
ALDH6A1: This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial methylmalonate semialdehy...
ATP1B1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establ...
ATP5F1A: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, using an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxi...
ATP5F1B: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons...
ATP5F1C: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane dur...
ATP5F1D: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner m...
ATP5F1E: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during ox...
ATP5MC1: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosp...
ATP5MC2: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphoryl...
ATP5MC3: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosph...
ATP5ME: Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phos...
ATP5MF: Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes...
ATP5MG: Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phos...
ATP5PB: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons ac...
ATP5PD: Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is compos...
ATP5PF: Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed ...
ATP5PO: The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the F-type ATPase found in th...
ATP6AP1: This gene encodes a component of a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. Vacuol...
ATP6V0B: This gene encodes a portion of the V0 domain of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit e...
ATP6V0C: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organe...
ATP6V0E1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular process...
ATP6V1C1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryotic cells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intr...
ATP6V1D: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidi...
ATP6V1E1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase depe...
ATP6V1F: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidif...
ATP6V1G1: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATP...
ATP6V1H: This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular organelles. V-ATPase-d...
BAX: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide var...
BCKDHA: The branched-chain alpha-keto acid (BCAA) dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex is an innter mitochondrial enzyme complex that catalyzes the second major step...
BDH2: Enables 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activi...
CASP7: This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a centra...
COX10: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by m...
COX11: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits enc...
COX15: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric comp...
COX17: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric...
COX4I1: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and contri...
COX5A: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electron...
COX5B: Cytochrome C oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer ...
COX6A1: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalyti...
COX6B1: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen...
COX6C: Cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxyge...
COX7A2: Cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting...
COX7A2L: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catal...
COX7B: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c...
COX7C: Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to ox...
COX8A: The protein encoded by this gene is the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain, coupling the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to mole...
CPT1A: The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiated by the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is ...
CS: The protein encoded by this gene is a Krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme t...
CYB5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound cytochrome that reduces fe...
CYB5R3: This gene encodes cytochrome b5 reductase, which includes a membrane-bound form in somatic cells (anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial and other membran...
CYC1: This gene encodes a subunit of the cytochrome bc1 complex, which pl...
CYCS: This gene encodes a small heme protein that functions as a central component of the electron transport chain in mitoch...
DECR1: This gene encodes an accessory enz...
DLAT: This gene encodes component E2 of the multi-enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). PDC resides in the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The...
DLD: This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. The encoded protein has been identified as a m...
DLST: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that belongs to the 2-oxoacid dehydroge...
ECH1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The gene product shows high sequence similarity to enoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) hydratases of sever...
ECHS1: The protein encoded by this gene functions in the second step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta...
ECI1: This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The protein encoded is a key m...
ETFA: ETFA participates in catalyzing the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. It shuttles electrons between pri...
ETFB: This gene encodes electron-transfer-flavoprotein, beta polypeptide, which shuttles electrons be...
ETFDH: This gene encodes a component of the electron-transfer system in mitochondria and i...
FDX1: This gene encodes a small iron-sulfur protein that transfers el...
FH: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzymatic component of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, or Krebs cycle, and catalyzes the fo...
FXN: This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein which belongs to the FRATAXI...
GLUD1: This gene encodes glutamate dehydrogenase, which is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative deamination of glutamate to alpha-ketoglutarate...
GOT2: Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme which exists ...
GPI: This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In the c...
GPX4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, organic hydroperoxides and lipid hydroperoxides, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates...
GRPEL1: Enables identical protein binding activity and unfold...
HADHA: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-...
HADHB: This gene encodes the beta subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain f...
HCCS: The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that covalently li...
HSD17B10: This gene encodes 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase type II, a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The gene product is a...
HSPA9: This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 gene family. The encoded protein is pr...
HTRA2: This gene encodes a serine protease. The protein has been localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and interacts with an alternativ...
IDH1: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases ha...
IDH2: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the elec...
IDH3A: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the el...
IDH3B: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the...
IDH3G: Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five ...
IMMT: Enables RNA binding activity. Involve...
ISCA1: ISCA1 is a mitochondrial protein involved in th...
ISCU: This gene encodes a component of the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster scaffold. Fe-S clusters are cofactors that play a role in the function of a diverse set of enzy...
LDHA: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the...
LDHB: This gene encodes the B subunit of lactate dehydrogenase enzyme, which catalyzes the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant i...
LRPPRC: This gene encodes a leucine-rich protein that has multiple pentatricopeptide repeats (PPR). The precise role of ...
MAOB: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the flavin monoamine oxidase family. It is a enzyme...
MDH1: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD/NADH-dependent, reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate in many metabolic pathways, including the citric acid cycle. Two main isozymes ...
MDH2: Malate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidation of malate to oxaloacetate, utilizing the N...
MFN2: This gene encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein that participates in mitochondrial fusion and contributes to the maintenance and operati...
MGST3: This gene encodes a member of the MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metaboli...
MPC1: The protein encoded by this gene is part of an MPC1/MPC2 heterodimer that is responsibl...
MRPL11: This nuclear gene encodes a 39S subunit componen...
MRPL15: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist...
MRPL34: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosome...
MRPL35: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of ...
MRPS11: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and...
MRPS12: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protei...
MRPS15: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. T...
MRPS22: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a ...
MRPS30: Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subuni...
MTRF1: The protein encoded by this gene was determined by in silico methods to be a mitochondrial protein with similarity to the peptide chain r...
MTRR: This gene encodes a member of the ferredoxin-NADP(+) reductase (FNR) family of electron transferases. This protein funct...
MTX2: The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the metaxin 2 protein from mouse, which has been shown to int...
NDUFA1: The human NDUFA1 gene codes for an essential component of complex I of the respiratory chain, which transfers electrons from NADH to ubiquinone. It has been noted that the N-ter...
NDUFA2: The encoded protein is a subunit of the hydrophobic protein fraction of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (com...
NDUFA3: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory ch...
NDUFA4: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 9kDa subunit family. Mammali...
NDUFA5: This nuclear gene encodes a conserved protein that comprises the B13 subunit of complex I of the...
NDUFA6: This gene encodes a member of the LYR family of proteins that contain a highly conser...
NDUFA7: This gene encodes a subunit of NADH:ubiquinone oxidored...
NDUFA8: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 19 kDa subunit family. Mammalian complex I is com...
NDUFA9: The encoded protein is a subunit of the hydrophobic protein fra...
NDUFAB1: Predicted to enable acyl binding activity; acyl carrier activity; and fatty acid ...
NDUFB1: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain ...
NDUFB2: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mammalian complex I i...
NDUFB3: This gene encodes an accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Comp...
NDUFB4: This gene encodes a non-catalytic subunit of the multisubunit NAD...
NDUFB5: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mam...
NDUFB6: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mammalian c...
NDUFB7: The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase...
NDUFB8: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I assembly. Located...
NDUFC1: The encoded protein is a subunit of the NADH:ubiquinone ox...
NDUFC2: Involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I...
NDUFS1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 75 kDa subunit family. Mammalian complex I is composed of 45 different subunits. It locates at the mit...
NDUFS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I). Mammalian mitochondrial c...
NDUFS3: This gene encodes one of the iron-sulfur protein (IP) c...
NDUFS4: This gene encodes an nuclear-encoded accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respirat...
NDUFS6: This gene encodes a subunit of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), which is the first enzyme complex in the...
NDUFS7: This gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of one of the complexes that forms the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein is one...
NDUFS8: This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, or Complex I, a multimeric ...
NDUFV1: The mitochondrial respiratory chain provides energy to cells via oxidative phosphorylation and consists of four membrane-bound electron-transporting protein complexes (I-IV) and an ATP synthase (compl...
NDUFV2: The NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain catalyzes the transfer of electrons fr...
NNT: This gene encodes an integral protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The enzyme couples h...
NQO2: This gene encodes a member of the thioredoxin family of enzymes. It is a cytosolic and ubiq...
OAT: This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase, which is a key enzyme in the pathway ...
OGDH: This gene encodes one subunit of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. This complex catalyzes the overall conversi...
OPA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein with similarity to dynamin-related ...
OXA1L: This gene encodes an evolutionarily conserved protein that is localized to the...
PDHA1: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2), and provides t...
PDHB: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-...
PDHX: The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is located in the mitochondrial matrix and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The PDH complex thereby links glycolysis to Krebs cycle. The PDH complex contains three catalytic subunits, E1, E2, a...
PDK4: This gene is a member of the PDK/BCKDK protein kinase family and encodes a mitochondrial prote...
PDP1: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is one of the three components (E1, E2, and E3) of the large pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases catalyze phosphorylation of serine residues of E1 to inactivate the E1 component and...
PHB2: Enables several functions, including protein C-terminus binding activity; protein N-terminus binding activit...
PHYH: This gene is a member of the PhyH family and encodes a peroxisomal protein that is involved in the alpha-oxidatio...
PMPCA: The protein encoded by this gene is found in the mitochondrion, where it r...
POLR2F: This gene encodes the sixth largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase re...
POR: This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane oxidoreductase that is essential for multiple metabolic processes, including reactions catalyzed by cytochrome P450 proteins ...
PRDX3: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein with antioxidant function. The protein is similar to the C22 subunit of Salmonella typhimurium alkylhydroperoxide reductase, and it can rescue ba...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13...
RHOT1: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and GTPase activity. ...
RHOT2: This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of ...
SDHA: This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial r...
SDHB: This tumor suppressor gene encodes the iron-sulfur protein subunit of the succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) enzyme complex which plays a critical role in mitochondria. The SDH enzyme complex is composed of four nuclear...
SDHC: This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprise succinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, ...
SDHD: This gene encodes a member of complex II of the respiratory chain, which is responsible for the oxidation of succinate. The encoded protei...
SLC25A11: The oxoglutarate/malate carrier transports 2-oxoglut...
SLC25A12: This gene encodes a calcium-binding mitochondrial carrier protein. The encoded protein localizes ...
SLC25A20: This gene product is one of several closely related mitochondrial-membrane carrier proteins that shuttle substrates between cytosol a...
SLC25A3: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the transport of phosphate into the mitochondrial matrix, either ...
SLC25A4: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of t...
SLC25A5: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this g...
SLC25A6: This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this g...
SUCLA2: Succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that acts as a heterodimer, being composed of an invariant a...
SUCLG1: This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric enzyme succinate coenzy...
SUPV3L1: Enables helicase activity; nucleic acid binding activity; and protein homodimerizati...
SURF1: This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane and thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c ...
TCIRG1: This gene encodes a subunit of a large protein complex known as a vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase). The protein complex acts as a pump to move ...
TIMM10: The mitochondrial protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of evolutionarily conser...
TIMM13: This gene encodes a member of the evolutionarily conserved TIMM (translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane) family of proteins that function as chap...
TIMM17A: Predicted to contribute to protein transmembrane transporter activity. Predict...
TIMM50: This gene encodes a subunit of the TIM23 inner mitochondrial membrane translocase complex. The encoded pro...
TIMM8B: This gene encodes a member of a well-conserved family of proteins with similarity to yeast Tim mitochondrial import proteins. Th...
TIMM9: TIMM9 belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins ...
TOMM22: The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane pro...
TOMM70: This gene encodes an import receptor of the outer mitochondrial m...
UQCR10: UCRC is a subunit of mitochondrial complex III (ubiqu...
UQCR11: This gene encodes the smallest known component of the ubiq...
UQCRB: This gene encodes a subunit of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase complex, which consists of one mitochondrial-encoded and 10 nuclear...
UQCRC1: Enables ubiquitin protein ligase binding activity. Predicted to be involve...
UQCRC2: The protein encoded by this gene is located in the mitochondrion, where i...
UQCRFS1: Predicted to enable oxidoreductase activity. Involved in mitochondrial respirato...
UQCRH: Predicted to enable ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reduc...
UQCRQ: This gene encodes a ubiquinone-binding protein of low m...
VDAC1: This gene encodes a voltage-dependent anion channel protein that is a major component of the outer mitochondrial memb...
VDAC2: This gene encodes a member of the voltage-dependent anion channel pore-forming family of proteins that are ...
VDAC3: This gene encodes a voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), and belongs to the mitochondrial porin family. VDACs are small, integral membran...
////
ABAT: 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) is responsible for catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an important, mostly inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, into succinic semialdehyde. The acti...
ABCC5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MR...
ABHD4: Predicted to enable lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity and lysophospholipase activity. Predicted to be involved in ...
ACVR1B: This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth facto...
ADA: This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosine to inosine in the purine catabolic pathway. Various mutations have been described for this g...
AEN: Enables exonuclease activity. Involved in intrinsic apoptotic signaling...
AK1: This gene encodes an adenylate kinase enzyme involved in energy metabolism and homeostasis of cellular adenine nucleotide ratios in different intracellular compa...
ALOX15B: This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of structurally related nonheme iron dioxygenases involved in the production of fatty acid hydro...
ANKRA2: Enables enzyme binding activity and low-density lipoprotein particle receptor bin...
APAF1: This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that initiates apoptosis. This protein contains several copies of the WD-40 domain, a caspase recruitment domain ...
APP: This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursor protein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some of these peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransf...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcription factor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription ...
BAIAP2: The protein encoded by this gene has been identified as a brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor (BAI1)-binding protein. This adaptor protein links membrane bound G-proteins to cytoplasmic effector proteins. This protein functions as an in...
BAK1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form oligomers or heterodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic re...
BAX: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms ...
BLCAP: This gene encodes a protein that reduces cell growth by stimulating apoptosis. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters result in multiple transcript variants encoding the sa...
BMP2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors ...
BTG1: This gene is a member of an anti-proliferative gene family that regulates cell growth and differentiation. Expression of this gene is hi...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This fa...
CASP1: This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzyme...
CCND2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct e...
CCND3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Differ...
CCNG1: The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors...
CCNK: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transcription cyclin family. These cyclins may regulate ...
CCP110: Involved in centriole replication; negative regulation of ci...
CD81: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four ...
CD82: This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily. Expression of this gene has been show...
CDH13: This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is localized to the surface of the cell membrane and is anchored by a GPI moiety, rather than by a transmembrane dom...
CDK5R1: The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activator of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required for proper development of the central nervous system. The p35 form of this ...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of th...
CDKN2A: This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in their first exons. At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase. The remaining transcript inclu...
CDKN2AIP: The protein encoded by this gene regulates the DNA damage response through several d...
CDKN2B: This gene lies adjacent to the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A in a region that is frequently mutated and deleted in a wide variety of tumors. This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent...
CEBPA: This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain and recognizes the CCAAT motif in the promoters of target genes. The encoded protein functions in homodim...
CGRRF1: Predicted to enable metal ion binding activity. Predicte...
CLCA2: This gene encodes a member of the calcium-activated chloride channel regulator (CLCR) family of proteins. Members of this family regulate the transport of chlor...
COQ8A: This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein similar to yeast ABC1, which functions in an electron-transferring membrane protein complex in the...
CSRNP2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CSRNP family of nuclear proteins that share conserved regions, including ...
CTSD: This gene encodes a member of the A1 family of peptidases. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate multiple protein products. These products ...
CTSF: Cathepsins are papain family cysteine proteinases that represent a major component of the lysosomal proteolytic system. Cathepsins generally contain a signal sequence, followed by a propeptide and then a catalytically active mature region. The very long (251 amino acid residues) proregion of the cathepsin F precursor contains a C...
CYFIP2: Predicted to enable small GTPase binding activity. Involved in activation of cysteine-type ...
DCXR: The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze diacetyl reductase and L-xylulose reductase ...
DDB2: This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for the repair of ultraviolet light-damaged DNA. This protein is the smaller subunit of a heterodimeric protein complex that participates in nucleotide exci...
DDIT3: This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other...
DDIT4: Predicted to enable 14-3-3 protein binding activity. Involv...
DEF6: DEF6, or IBP, is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (...
DGKA: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the eukaryotic diacylglycerol kinase family. It acts as a modulator that competes...
DNTTIP2: This gene is thought to be involved in chromatin remodeling and gene transcription. The encoded nuclea...
DRAM1: This gene is regulated as part of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway. The gene encodes a l...
EI24: This gene encodes a putative tumor suppressor and has higher expression in p53-expressing cells than in control cells and is an immediate-early induc...
ELP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a scaffold protein and a regulator for three different kinases involved in proinflammatory...
EPHA2: This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly ...
EPHX1: Epoxide hydrolase is a critical biotransformation enzyme that converts epoxides from the degradation of aromatic compounds to trans-dihy...
EPS8L2: This gene encodes a member of the EPS8 gene family. The encoded protein, like ...
ERCC5: This gene encodes a single-strand specific DNA endonuclease that makes the 3' incision in DNA excision repair following UV-induced damage. The protein may also function in other cellular processes, including RNA polymerase II tra...
F2R: Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involved in the regula...
FAM162A: Involved in several processes, including activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase...
FAS: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a central role in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various malignancies and diseas...
FBXW7: This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphoryl...
FDXR: This gene encodes a mitochondrial flavoprotein that initiates el...
FGF13: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biologic...
FOS: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that c...
FOXO3: This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead d...
FUCA1: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of fu...
GADD45A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment wit...
GLS2: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial phosphate-activated glutaminase that catalyzes the h...
GM2A: This gene encodes a small glycolipid transport protein which acts as a substrate specific co-factor for the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexos...
GPX2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutathione peroxidase family, members of which catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxides and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) by glutathione, and thereby protect cells against oxidative damage. Several isozymes of this gene family exist in vertebrates, which...
H1-2: Histones are basic nuclear proteins responsible for nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octa...
H2AJ: Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Nucleosomes consist of approximately 146 bp of DNA wrapped around a histone octa...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including epiderma...
HDAC3: Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects...
HEXIM1: Expression of this gene is induced by he...
HINT1: This gene encodes a protein that hydrolyzes purine nucleotide phosphoramidates substrates, including AMP-morpholidate, AMP-N-alanine methyl ester, ...
HMOX1: Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves heme to form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bil...
HRAS: This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic G...
HSPA4L: The protein encoded by this gene is heat shock inducible and may act as a chaperone. The encoded protein ...
IER3: This gene functions in the protection of cells from Fas- or tumor necrosis factor...
IER5: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to other immediate early response proteins. ...
IFI30: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal thiol reductase that at low pH can reduce ...
IL1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various immune responses, infl...
INHBB: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. The encoded prepropr...
IP6K2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the inositol phosphokinase (IPK) family. This protein is likely responsible for the conversio...
IRAG2: The protein encode dby this gene is expressed in a developme...
IRAK1: This gene encodes the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, one of two putative serine/threonine kinases ...
ISCU: This gene encodes a component of the iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster scaffold. Fe-S clusters are cofactors that play a role in the function of a diverse set of enzymes, including those that regulate meta...
ITGB4: Integrins are heterodimers comprised of alpha and beta subunits, that are noncovalently associated transmembrane glycoprotein receptors. Different combinations of alpha and beta polypeptides form complexes that ...
JAG2: The Notch signaling pathway is an intercellular signaling mechanism that is essential for proper embryonic developmen...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17. It encodes a protein which is high...
KIF13B: Enables 14-3-3 protein binding activity and protein ...
KLF4: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the Kruppel family of transcription factors. The encoded zinc finger protein is required for normal development of the barr...
KLK8: Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carci...
KRT17: This gene encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 17, express...
LDHB: This gene encodes the B subunit of lactate dehydrogenase enzyme, which catalyzes the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of NADH and NAD+ in ...
LIF: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with roles in several different systems. It is involved in the induction of hemat...
MAPKAPK3: This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase functions as a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)- activated protein kinase. MAP kinases are also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration p...
MDM2: This gene encodes a nuclear-localized E3 ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein can promote tumor formation by targeting tumor suppressor prot...
MKNK2: This gene encodes a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMK) Ser/Thr protein kinase family, which belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. This protein contains conserved DLG (asp-leu-gly) and ENIL (glu-asn-ile-leu) motifs, and an N-terminal polybasic region which binds importin A and...
MXD1: This gene encodes a member of the MYC/MAX/MAD network of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factors. The MYC/MAX/MAD transcription factors mediate cellular p...
MXD4: This gene is a member of the MAD gene family . The MAD genes encode basic helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper proteins that heterodimer...
NDRG1: This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family which belongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic ...
NHLH2: Enables RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding activity and sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in regula...
NINJ1: The ninjurin protein is upregulated after nerve injury both in dorsal root ganglion ne...
NOL8: NOL8 binds Ras-related GTP-binding protein...
NOTCH1: This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins. Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular...
NUDT15: This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the Nudix hydrolase superfamily. Members of this superfamily catalyze the hydrolysis of nucleoside diphosphates, in...
NUPR1: Enables DNA binding activity and transcription coactivator activity. Involved in several processes, including regulation of ce...
OSGIN1: This gene encodes an oxidative stress response protein that regulates cell death. Expression of the gene is regulated by p53 and is induced by DNA damage. The protein regulat...
PCNA: The protein encoded by this gene is found in the nucleus and is a cofactor of DNA polymerase delta. The encoded protein acts as a homotrimer ...
PDGFA: This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of both platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF). Th...
PERP: Involved in activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. Predicted to be locate...
PHLDA3: Enables phosphatidylinositol phosphate binding activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate bind...
PIDD1: The protein encoded by this gene contains a leucine-rich repeat and a death domain. This protein has been shown to interact with other death domain proteins, such as Fas (TNFRSF6)-associat...
PITPNC1: This gene encodes a member of the phosphatidylinositol transfer protein family. The encoded cytoplasmic protein plays a role i...
PLK2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the polo family of serine/threonine protein kinases that have a role in normal...
PLK3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the highly conserved polo-like kinase family of serine/threonine kinases. Members of this family are characterized by an amino-terminal kinase domain and a carboxy-terminal bipa...
PLXNB2: Members of the B class of plexins, such as PLXNB2 are trans...
PMM1: Phosphomannomutase catalyzes the conversion between D-mannose 6-phosphate and D-mannose 1-phosphate which is a ...
POLH: This gene encodes a member of the Y family of specialized DNA polymerases. It copies undamaged DNA with a lower fidelity than other DNA-directed polymerases. However, it accurately replicat...
POM121: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that localizes to the inner nuclear membrane and forms a core component of the nucl...
PPM1D: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. The expression of this gene is induced in a p53-dependent manner in respon...
PPP1R15A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful ...
PRKAB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important ene...
PRMT2: Enables several functions, including nuclear receptor binding activity; peroxisome proliferator activated rece...
PROCR: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for activated protein C, a serine protease activated by and involved in the blood coagulation...
PTPN14: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellula...
PTPRE: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle,...
PVT1: This gene represents a long non-coding RNA locus that has been identified as a candidate oncogene. Increased copy number and overexpression of this gene are associated with many t...
RAB40C: Predicted to enable GDP binding activity; GTP binding activity; and GTPase activity. Pred...
RACK1: Enables several functions, including cyclin binding activity; enzyme binding activity; and protein domain specific binding activity...
RAD51C: This gene is a member of the RAD51 family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51 and are known to be involved in the homologous recombinatio...
RAD9A: This gene product is highly similar to Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad9, a cell cycle checkpoint protein required for cell cycle arrest and DNA damage repair. This prot...
RALGDS: Guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulators (GDSs, or exchange...
RAP2B: This intronless gene belongs to a family of RAS-related genes. The proteins encoded by these genes share approximately 50% amino...
RB1: The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of the cell cycle and was the first tumor suppressor gene found...
RCHY1: The protein encoded by this gene has ubiquitin ligase activity. It mediates E3-dependent ubiquitination and protea...
RETSAT: Predicted to enable all-trans-retinol 13,14-reduct...
RGS16: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the 'regulator of G protein signaling'...
RHBDF2: Predicted to enable protein transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in negative r...
RNF19B: This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein containing two RING-type and one IBR-type zinc finger motifs. T...
RPL18: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 ...
RPL36: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species a...
RPS12: Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and appr...
RPS27L: This gene encodes a protein sharing 96% amino acid si...
RRAD: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity and calcium channel regulator activity. Predicted to ...
RRP8: Enables methylated histone binding activity. Involved in several processes, including cellular response to g...
RXRA: Retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and retinoic acid receptors (RARs) are nuclear receptors that mediate the biological effects of retinoids by their involveme...
S100A10: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 prote...
S100A4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localized in the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a w...
SAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family, and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of po...
SDC1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family. The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal orga...
SEC61A1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SECY/SEC61- alpha family. It appears to play a crucial role in the inser...
SERPINB5: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation ...
SERTAD3: The protein encoded by this gene was identified in a yeast two-hybrid assay employing the second subunit of human replication protei...
SESN1: This gene encodes a member of the sestrin family. Sestrins are induced by the p53 tumor suppressor protein and play a role in the cellular response to DNA damage and oxidative stres...
SFN: This gene encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein. The encoded protein binds...
SLC19A2: This gene encodes the thiamin transporter protein. Mutations in this gene cause thiamin-responsive...
SLC35D1: Glycosylation of cellular glycoconjugates occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi compartment, and requires transport of nucleotide sugars from...
SLC3A2: This gene is a member of the solute carrier family and encodes a cell surface, transmembrane protein. The protein exists as the...
SLC7A11: This gene encodes a member of a heteromeric, sodium-independent, anionic amino acid transport system that is highly specific for cysteine and glutamate. In this syst...
SOCS1: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI), also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI family members are cytokine-inducible negative r...
SP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to GC-rich motifs of many promoters. The encoded protein is involved in many cell...
SPHK1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosine to form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- and extracellular functions. Intracellula...
ST14: The protein encoded by this gene is an epithelial-derived, integral membrane serine protease. This protease forms a complex with the Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, HAI-1, a...
STEAP3: This gene encodes a multipass membrane protein that functions as an iron transporter. The encoded p...
STOM: This gene encodes a member of a highly conserved family of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein localizes to the cell ...
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are d...
TAX1BP3: This gene encodes a small, highly conserved protein with a single PDZ domain. PDZ (PSD-95/Discs large/ZO-1 homologous) domains promote protein-protein interactions that affect cell signaling, adhesion, protein scaffolding, and receptor and ion transporter functions. The encoded pro...
TCHH: The protein encoded by this gene forms crosslinked complexes with itself and keratin intermediate ...
TCN2: This gene encodes a member of the vitamin B12-binding protein family. This family of proteins, alternatively referred to as R binders, is ex...
TGFA: This gene encodes a growth factor that is a ligand for the epidermal growth factor receptor, which activates a signaling pathway for cel...
TGFB1: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression...
TM4SF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of the...
TM7SF3: Involved in cellular response to unfolded protein; negativ...
TNFSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This transmembrane cytokine is a bidirectional signal transducer that acts as a ligand for TNFRSF9/4-1BB, which is a costimulat...
TNNI1: Troponin proteins associate with tropomyosin and regulate the calcium sensitivity of the myofibril contractile apparatus of striated muscles. Troponin I (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subunits that form the troponin complex of the thin filaments o...
TOB1: This gene encodes a member of the transducer of erbB-2 /B-cell translocation gene protein ...
TP53: This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expres...
TP63: This gene encodes a member of the p53 family of transcription factors. The functional domains of p53 family proteins include an N-terminal transactivation domain, a central DNA-binding domain and an oligomerization domain. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of...
TPD52L1: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that contain coiled-coil domains and may form hetero- or homome...
TPRKB: Enables protein kinase binding activity. Involved in tRNA threony...
TRAF4: This gene encodes a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) family. TRAF proteins are associated with, and mediate signal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. ...
TRAFD1: The innate immune system confers host defense against viral an...
TRIAP1: Enables p53 binding activity. Contributes to phosphatidic acid transfer activity. Involved in several processes,...
TRIB3: The protein encoded by this gene is a putative protein kinase that is induced by the transcription factor NF-kappaB. The...
TSC22D1: This gene encodes a member of the TSC22 domain family of leucine zipper transcription factors. The encoded protein is stimulated by transforming growth factor b...
TSPYL2: This gene encodes a member of the testis-specific protein Y-encoded, TSPY-like/SET/nucleosome ...
TXNIP: This gene encodes a thioredoxin-binding protein that is a member of the alpha arrestin protein family. Thioredoxin is a thiol-oxidoreductase that is a major regulato...
UPP1: This gene encodes a uridine phosphorylase, an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible...
VAMP8: This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that belongs to the synaptobrevin/vesicle...
VDR: This gene encodes vitamin D3 receptor, which is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-inducible transcription factors. This receptor also functions as a receptor for the secondary bile acid, lithocholic acid. Downstream targets of vitami...
VWA5A: Located in nucleopl...
WRAP73: This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically brac...
WWP1: WW domain-containing proteins are found in all eukaryotes and play an important role in the regulation of a wide variety of cellular functions such as protein degradation, transcription, and R...
XPC: The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of the XPC complex, which plays an important role in the early steps of global genome nucleotide excision repa...
ZBTB16: This gene is a member of the Krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family and encodes a zinc finger transcription factor that contains nine K...
ZFP36L1: This gene is a member of the TIS11 family of early response genes, which are induced by various agonists such as the phorbol ester TPA and the polypeptide mitogen EGF...
ZMAT3: This gene encodes a protein containing three zinc finger domains and a nuclear localization signal. The mRNA and the protein...
ZNF365: This gene encodes a zinc finger protein that may play a role in the repair of DNA damage and maintenance of...
////
ABCA1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracell...
ACKR3: This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. Although this protein was earlier thought to be a rec...
AREG: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the epidermal growth factor family. It is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, Schwann cells and fibroblasts. It is rel...
ATF3: This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcription factor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription ...
ATP2B1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells a...
B4GALT1: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-...
B4GALT5: This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar...
BCL2A1: This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities such as embryonic development,...
BCL3: This gene is a proto-oncogene candidate. It is identified by its translocation into the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some cases of B-cell leukemia. The pro...
BCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription...
BHLHE40: This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in various tissues. The encoded pr...
BIRC2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of proteins that inhibits apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis facto...
BIRC3: This gene encodes a member of the IAP family of proteins that inhibit apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TR...
BMP2: This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors ...
BTG1: This gene is a member of an anti-proliferative gene family that regulates cell growth and differentiation. Expression of this gene is hi...
BTG2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This fa...
BTG3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This family has structurall...
CCL2: This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies...
CCL20: This antimicrobial gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved...
CCL4: The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen-inducible monokine ...
CCL5: This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on...
CCN1: The secreted protein encoded by this gene is growth factor-inducible and promotes the adhesion of...
CCND1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of...
CCNL1: Predicted to enable cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine ...
CCRL2: This gene encodes a chemokine receptor like protein, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein and most closely related to CCR1. Chemokines and their re...
CD44: The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands,...
CD69: This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamily of type II transmem...
CD80: The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane receptor that is activated by the b...
CD83: The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein and member of the immunoglobulin su...
CDKN1A: This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-cyclin-dependent kinase2 or -cyclin-dependent kinase4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of th...
CEBPB: This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain. The encoded protein functions as a h...
CEBPD: The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain DNA regulatory regions. ...
CFLAR: The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and is structurally similar to caspase-8....
CLCF1: This gene is a member of the glycoprotein (gp)130 cytokine family and encodes cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 (CLCF1). CLCF1 forms a heterodimer complex with cytokine receptor-like factor 1 (CRLF1). This dimer competes with ciliary neurotroph...
CSF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophag...
CSF2: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This ...
CXCL1: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines. The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that signals through the G-protein cou...
CXCL10: This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily and ligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding o...
CXCL11: Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostly basic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of various types of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane, G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundame...
CXCL2: This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodes secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory ...
CXCL3: This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines. The...
CXCL6: The protein encoded by this gene is a member CXC chemokine family. The encoded protein is a ...
DENND5A: This gene encodes a DENN-domain-containing protein that functions as a RAB-activating guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). This protein catalyzes the conversion ...
DNAJB4: The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone, tumor suppressor, and member of the heat shock protein-40 family. The encoded protein binds the cell a...
DRAM1: This gene is regulated as part of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway. The gene encodes a l...
DUSP1: The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatase with dual specificity for tyrosine and threonine. The encoded protein can dephosphorylate MAP kina...
DUSP2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily.  These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosin...
DUSP4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate member...
DUSP5: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily.  These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine resi...
EDN1: This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate a secreted peptide that belongs to t...
EFNA1: This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrins and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating ...
EGR1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the EGR family of C2H2-type zinc-finger prot...
EGR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor with three tandem C2H2-type zinc fingers. De...
EGR3: This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that belongs to the EGR family of C2H2-type zinc-finger proteins. It is an immediate-early growth response gene whi...
EHD1: This gene belongs to a highly conserved gene family encoding EPS15 homology (EH) domain-containing proteins. The protein-binding EH domain was fi...
EIF1: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in re...
ETS2: This gene encodes a transcription factor which regulates genes involved in development and ...
F2RL1: This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family of proteins. The encoded cell surface receptor is activated through proteolytic cleava...
F3: This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein. This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, and it functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII. The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiation of the coagulati...
FJX1: The protein encoded by this gene is the human ortholog of mouse and Drosophila four...
FOS: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that c...
FOSB: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2. These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can...
FOSL1: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2. These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that ...
FOSL2: The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2. These genes encode leucin...
FUT4: The product of this gene transfers fucose to N-acetyllactosam...
G0S2: Involved in extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway ...
GADD45A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment wit...
GADD45B: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful growth arrest conditions and treatment with DNA-damaging agents. The genes in this gr...
GCH1: This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family. The encoded protein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) biosynthesis, catal...
GEM: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the RAD/GEM family of GTP-binding proteins. It is associ...
GFPT2: Predicted to enable glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase (isomerizing) activity. Predicted to be involved in UD...
GPR183: This gene was identified by the up-regulation of its expression upon Epstein-Barr virus infection of primary B lymphocyte...
HBEGF: Enables growth factor activity and heparin binding activity. Involved in several processes, including epiderma...
HES1: This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors. It is a tr...
ICAM1: This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is typically expre...
ICOSLG: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in T...
ID2: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inhibitor of DNA binding family, members of which are transcriptional regulators that contain a helix-l...
IER2: Predicted to enable DNA binding activity. Involved in cel...
IER3: This gene functions in the protection of cells from Fas- or tumor necrosis factor...
IER5: This gene encodes a protein that is similar to other immediate early response proteins. ...
IFIH1: IFIH1 encodes MDA5 which is an intracellular sensor of viral RNA that triggers the innate immune response. Sensing RNA length and secondary structure, MDA5 binds dsRNA oligonucleotides with a modified DExD/H-box helicase core and a C-t...
IFIT2: Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation o...
IFNGR2: This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma recep...
IL12B: This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 40 kD cytokine receptor like subuni...
IL15RA: This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that specifically binds interleukin 15 (IL15) with high affinity. The receptors of IL15 and IL2 share two subunits, IL2R beta and IL2R gamma. This forms the basis of many...
IL18: The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine of the IL-1 family that is constitutively found as a precursor within the cytoplasm of a variety of cells including macrophage...
IL1A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various immune responses, infl...
IL1B: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein, which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE). This cytokine is an important mediator of the inflammatory response...
IL23A: This gene encodes a subunit of the heterodimeric cytokine interleukin 23 (IL23). IL23 is composed of this protein and the p40 subunit of inte...
IL6: This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturation of B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenous pyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with a...
IL6ST: The protein encoded by this gene is a signal transducer shared by many cytokines, including interleukin 6 (IL6), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and oncostatin M (OSM). ...
IL7R: The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 7 (IL7). The function of this receptor requires the interleukin 2 receptor, gamma c...
INHBA: This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytica...
IRF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator and tumor suppressor, serving as an activator of genes involved in both innate and acquired immune responses. The enco...
IRS2: This gene encodes the insulin receptor substrate 2, a cytoplasmic signaling molecule that mediates effects of insulin, insulin-lik...
JAG1: The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein. Human ...
JUN: This gene is the putative transforming gene of avian sarcoma virus 17. It encodes a protein which is high...
JUNB: Enables sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding activity. Involved in positive...
KDM6B: The protein encoded by this gene is a lysine-specific demethylase that specifically demethylates di- or tri-methylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me2 or H3K27me3). H3K27 trimethylation is...
KLF10: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that feature C2H2-type zinc finger domains. The encode...
KLF2: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the Kruppel family of transcription factors. The encoded zinc finger protein is expressed ea...
KLF4: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the Kruppel family of transcription factors. The encoded zinc finger protein is required for normal development of the barr...
KLF6: This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcription factors. The zinc...
KLF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that binds to GC b...
KYNU: Kynureninase is a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (pyridoxal-P) dependent enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of L-k...
LAMB3: The product encoded by this gene is a laminin that belongs to a family of basement membrane proteins. This protein is a beta subunit laminin,...
LDLR: The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands. The encoded protein is normally bound at the ce...
LIF: The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with roles in several different systems. It is involved in the induction of hemat...
LITAF: Lipopolysaccharide is a potent stimulator of monocytes and macrophages, causing secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and other inflammatory mediators. This gene encodes lipopolysaccha...
MAFF: The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor that lacks a transactivation domain. It is known to bind the US-2 DNA element in the promoter...
MAP2K3: The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated by mitogenic and environmental stress, and participates in the MAP kinase-mediated...
MAP3K8: This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and can activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pa...
MARCKS: The protein encoded by this gene is a substrate for protein kinase C. It is localized to the plasma membrane and is an acti...
MCL1: This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein, which is a member of the Bcl-2 family. Alternative spli...
MSC: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor capable of binding an E-box element either as a homodime...
MXD1: This gene encodes a member of the MYC/MAX/MAD network of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factors. The MYC/MAX/MAD transcription factors mediate cellular p...
MYC: This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the r...
NAMPT: This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the condensation of nicotinamide with 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate to yield nicotin...
NFAT5: The product of this gene is a member of the nuclear factors of activated T cells family of transcription factors. Proteins belonging to this famil...
NFE2L2: This gene encodes a transcription factor which is a member of a small family of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins. The encoded...
NFIL3: The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator that binds as a homodimer to activating tra...
NFKB1: This gene encodes a 105 kD protein which can undergo cotranslational processing by the 26S proteasome to produce a 50 kD protein. The 105 kD protein is a Rel protein-specific transcription inhibitor and the 50 kD protein is a DNA binding subunit of the NF-kappa-B (NFKB) protein co...
NFKB2: This gene encodes a subunit of the transcription factor complex nuclear factor-kappa-B (NFkB). The NFkB complex is expressed in numerous cell types and functions as a central activator of genes involve...
NFKBIA: This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which contain multiple ankrin repeat domains. The encoded protein interacts...
NFKBIE: The protein encoded by this gene binds to components of NF-kappa-B, trapping the complex in the...
NINJ1: The ninjurin protein is upregulated after nerve injury both in dorsal root ganglion ne...
NR4A1: This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. Expression is induced by phytohe...
NR4A2: This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcription f...
NR4A3: This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator. The protein can efficiently bind the NGFI-B Response Element ...
OLR1: This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs to the C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated through the cyclic AMP signaling path...
PANX1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the innexin family. Innexin family members are the structural components of g...
PDE4B: This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family. The encoded prot...
PDLIM5: This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that possess a 100-amino acid PDZ domain at the N terminus and one to three LI...
PER1: This gene is a member of the Period family of genes and is expressed in a circadian pattern in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the primary circadian pacemaker in the mammalian bra...
PFKFB3: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of bifunctional proteins that are involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory molecule that controls glycolys...
PHLDA1: This gene encodes an evolutionarily conserved proline-histi...
PHLDA2: This gene is located in a cluster of imprinted genes on chromosome 11p15.5, which is considered to be an important tumor su...
PLAU: This gene encodes a secreted serine protease that converts plasminogen to plasmin. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate A and B polypeptide chains. These chains associate via a single disulf...
PLAUR: This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activator and, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likely influences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surface plasminogen activation and localized...
PLEK: Enables phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and prote...
PLK2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the polo family of serine/threonine protein kinases that have a role in normal...
PLPP3: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phosphatidic acid phosphatase (PAP) family. PAPs convert phosphatidic acid to diacylglycerol, and funct...
PMEPA1: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a Smad interacting motif (SIM). Expression of this gene is induced by androgens and...
PNRC1: Predicted to be active...
PPP1R15A: This gene is a member of a group of genes whose transcript levels are increased following stressful ...
PTGER4: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). T...
PTGS2: Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase (PTGS), also known as cyclooxygenase, is the key enzyme in prostaglandin biosynthesis, and acts both as a di...
PTPRE: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle,...
PTX3: This gene encodes a member of the pentraxin protein family. The expression of this protein is induced by inflammatory cytokines in response to i...
RCAN1: The protein encoded by this gene interacts with calcineurin A and inhibits calcineurin-dependent signaling pathways, possibly affecting cen...
REL: This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the Rel homology domain/immunoglobulin-like fold, plexin, transcription factor (RHD/IPT) family. Members of this family regulate genes invo...
RELA: NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in several biological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state by speci...
RELB: Enables RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity and protein kinase binding activity. Involved i...
RHOB: Predicted to enable GTP binding activity; GTPase activity; and protein kinase binding activity. Invo...
RIPK2: This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinase...
RNF19B: This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein containing two RING-type and one IBR-type zinc finger motifs. T...
SAT1: The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family, and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of po...
SDC4: The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan that ...
SERPINB2: Predicted to enable serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. Predicted to be...
SERPINB8: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ov-serpin family of serine protease inhibitors. The encoded protein is produc...
SERPINE1: This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin) superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue ...
SGK1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that plays an important role in cellular stress response. This kinase activates certain potassiu...
SIK1: This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that contains a ubiquitin-associated (UBA) domain...
SLC16A6: Predicted to enable monocarboxylic acid transmembrane transporter activit...
SLC2A3: Enables dehydroascorbic acid transmembrane transporter activity; glucose binding activity; and glucose transmemb...
SLC2A6: Hexose transport into mammalian cells is catalyzed by a...
SMAD3: The SMAD family of proteins are a group of intracellular signal transducer proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad)...
SNN: Enables metal ion binding activity. Predicted to be ...
SOCS3: This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI), also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI family members are cytokin...
SOD2: This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family. It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetramer and binds one manganese ion...
SPHK1: The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosine to form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- and extracellular functions. Intracellula...
SPSB1: Enables ubiquitin ligase-substrate adaptor activity. In...
SQSTM1: This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that binds ubiquitin and regulates activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) signaling pathw...
STAT5A: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimer...
TANK: The TRAF (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor) family of proteins associate with and transduce signals from members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily....
TAP1: The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are d...
TGIF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the three-amino acid loop extension (TALE) superclass of atypical homeodomains. TALE homeobox proteins are highly conserved transcription regulators. This particular homeodomain binds to a previ...
TIPARP: This gene encodes a member of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase superfamily. Studies...
TLR2: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans an...
TNC: This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein with a spatially and temporally restricted tissue distri...
TNF: This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A...
TNFAIP2: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be induced by the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in umbi...
TNFAIP3: This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The protein encoded by this gene is a...
TNFAIP6: The protein encoded by this gene is a secretory protein that contains a hyaluronan-binding domain, and thus is a member of the hyaluronan-binding protein family. The hyaluronan-binding domain is known ...
TNFAIP8: Enables cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity invol...
TNFRSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contributes to the clonal expansion, survival, and developm...
TNFSF9: The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This transmembrane cytokine is a bidirectional signal transducer that acts as a ligand for TNFRSF9/4-1BB, which is a costimulat...
TNIP1: This gene encodes an A20-binding protein which plays a role in autoimmunity and tissue homeostasis throug...
TNIP2: This gene encodes a protein which acts as an inhibitor of NFkappaB activation. The encoded protein ...
TRAF1: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor (TNFR) associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate the signal transduction from various receptors of the TNFR superfamily. This protein and TRAF2 f...
TRIB1: Enables mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase binding activity and protein kinase inhibitor...
TRIP10: Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involv...
TSC22D1: This gene encodes a member of the TSC22 domain family of leucine zipper transcription factors. The encoded protein is stimulated by transforming growth factor b...
TUBB2A: Microtubules, key participants in processes such as mitosis and intracellular transport, are composed of het...
VEGFA: This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family. It encodes a heparin-binding protein, which exists as a disulfide-linked homodimer. This growth factor induces proliferation and migration of vascular endothelial cells, and is essential for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis. Disruption of this gene in mice resulted in abnormal embryonic blood vessel formation. This gene is upregulated in many known tumors and its expression is correlated with tumor stage...
YRDC: Predicted to enable nucleotidyltransferase activity and tRNA binding activ...
ZBTB10: Predicted to enable RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region...
ZC3H12A: ZC3H12A is an MCP1 (CCL2; MIM 158105)-induced protein that...
ZFP36: Enables several functions, including 14-3-3 protein binding activity; heat shock protein binding activity; and mRNA 3'-UTR AU-rich region binding ac...